Asian Cultural Council — Grant Opportunities
Asian Cultural Council

Language: English (US) 繁體中文 日本語

Alumni Resources
ACC Updates
Support Us
Search

About ACC
Grant Opportunities
ACC Impact
Events Events

Upcoming Events
Archived Events

Search
Menu

About ACC
Grant Opportunities
ACC Impact
Events Upcoming Events
Archived Events

Alumni Resources
ACC Updates
Support Us
Change Language

Select language English (US)
繁體中文
日本語

On This Page
Grant Opportunities
New York Fellowship
Individual Fellowship
Graduate Fellowship
Organization Grant
How to Apply
Contacting ACC
Manage Your Application or Grant

Home Grant Opportunities
Grant Opportunities
Application Submission for the 2026 Global Grant Cycle is now closed. The next Global Grant Cycle will open in fall of 2026—thank you!

2026 ACC Fellowships and Grants

The Asian Cultural Council (“ACC”) is pleased to announce the 2026 Grant Cycle&rsquo;s open call for applications, which begins on October 1, 2025, and ends on November 19, 2025.

ACC welcomes applications from artists, scholars, arts professionals, and organizations that propose cultural exchange and immersion activities that support ACC&rsquo;s mission to advance international dialogue for greater mutual understanding and respect in Asia and the United States.

ACC&rsquo;s fellowships and grants offer arts communities in Asia and the U.S. unique opportunities for long-term, self-designed, immersive exploration of other cultures that expand grantees&rsquo; horizons, nurture their perspectives and creative growth, and foster valuable international connections. ACC supports immersive cultural exchange experiences with the aim of improving appreciation and respect for communities and cultures in Asia and the U.S.—a critical foundation to healthy and strong cross-border relations. We seek applicants who share this commitment to advancing cultural exchange as part of their ongoing personal and artistic growth and their relationship with the world around them.

ACC takes an unconventional approach by not funding production-based grants, such as the creation of artwork, a film, an exhibition, or a performance. Instead, our grants seek to provide transformative and educational cultural enrichment opportunities for selected grantees. We find that through funding a period spent in an unfamiliar environment where grantees can take a break from their day-to-day responsibilities and deadlines, they are more open to expanding their perspectives and integrating learned experiences into their creative practices and engagement with the world around them.

ACC values long-lasting relationships with our grantees. We support grantees before and during their travels and bring them into a growing global community of ACC alumni.

Application and Selection Timeline

ACC's 2026 Grants Cycle will follow the timeline below.

Call for Applications Opens: October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM U.S. Eastern Daylight Time (EDT)

Call for Applications Closes: November 19, 2025, at 9:59 AM U.S. Eastern Standard Time (EST)

Letters of Recommendation Due: November 26, 2025, at 9:59 AM U.S. EST

Review and Selection Process: November 2025 - April 2026

Notifications to Applicants: Mid-May 2026

Grant Period (When ACC-funded travel and activities must take place): August 1, 2026 – December 31, 2027

General Eligibility Criteria and Requirements
Applicants for an ACC fellowship or grant must meet the general eligibility criteria and requirements included below. In addition to these, each fellowship and grant program has additional requirements, which you can find in the relevant program-specific guidelines (see under “ Fellowship and Grant Opportunities ”).

Learn more about our eligibility criteria and program requirements. Timing of Fellowship and Grant Activities

All ACC-funded activities must take place within the grant period: August 1, 2026 – December 31, 2027. Please review guidelines for the program you are interested in for more specific timing considerations.

Eligible Destinations

ACC fellowships and grant activities may only take place in the eligible countries, territories, and regions listed below. However, please note that the New York Fellowship and Graduate Fellowship programs may only take place in the U.S. For additional information on eligible destinations and restrictions, please review the desired program guidelines.

Eligible Countries, Territories, and Regions: Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Cambodia, China (Mainland), East Timor, Hong Kong SAR, India, Indonesia, Japan, Korea, Laos, Macau SAR, Malaysia, Mongolia, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Taiwan ROC, Thailand, United States, and Vietnam

Citizenship, Permanent Resident Status, Organization Registration

Applicants for an ACC fellowship or grant must be a citizen or legal permanent resident of at least one of the countries, territories, or regions listed above, or an organization registered in one of the countries, territories, or regions listed above. Please note that permanent resident status means that you have a government-granted legal status that allows you to reside in a particular country, territory, or region permanently. This is different from a temporary and/or renewable work visa or student/scholar visa.

Experience and Eligible Disciplines

Applicants must be an arts or cultural organization, or a scholar, practicing artist, or arts professional who, at the time of their application, can demonstrate at least five years of experience in one of the eligible disciplines listed below, and is applying to pursue activities related to an eligible discipline. (Note: applicants to the Graduate Fellowship program are not required to have five years of professional experience.)

Eligible Disciplines: Architecture (Design, History, and Theory), Archaeology, Art History, Arts Administration, Arts Criticism, Conservation, Crafts, Curation, Dance, Ethnomusicology, Film/Video/Photography, Literature, Museum Studies, Music, Theater, Visual Art

No Production or Promotional Grants

ACC fellowship and grant funding is strictly limited to supporting activities related to research, cultural exchange, and immersive experiences (e.g. travel and accommodations, daily expenses, museum admissions, event tickets, interpreters, etc.). ACC&rsquo;s grant funding cannot be used for :

Producing new works, performances, films, exhibitions, or publications

Purchasing production capital or equipment

Promotional activities and services including but not limited to travel, public relations, and marketing

Activities focused on commercial and industrial design or activities that are commercial in nature

Exclusively attending or participating in workshops, festivals, conferences, residency programs, etc. (ACC does not offer “travel grants”)

ACC Alumni

ACC welcomes applications from our alumni but please note that:

Alumni cannot apply if they have received an ACC grant within the last two calendar years.

Alumni of the ACC New York Fellowship program are not eligible to apply again for a New York Fellowship.

Alumni who have received a six-month fellowship or similarly large grant in the past are not likely to be awarded another grant of comparable size.

Selection Process and Criteria
ACC staff will first conduct an internal review to ensure applicants are eligible. ACC will then invite regional, national, and international experts in a wide range of disciplines, including ACC alumni, to serve as review panelists and participate in the selection process.

Learn more about our selection criteria. Review panelists assess applications using the following selection criteria (listed in the order of importance):

Alignment with ACC&rsquo;s mission to advance greater mutual understanding and respect through cultural exchange: Represents strong alignment with ACC&rsquo;s mission to advance international dialogue by fostering cultural exchange and articulates the significance of promoting cross-cultural dialogue between counterparts or among communities served by the project activities. 

Critical time in the applicant&rsquo;s career: Provides a strong personal rationale for pursuing their proposed cultural exchange experience at this time. 

Quality of proposal (feasibility, clarity, and impact): Demonstrates a clear and specific set of activities and objectives with potential for greater impact on the applicant, their practice, and/or the communities relevant to the applicant and their proposed activities. 

Artistic/professional merit: Possesses high-level qualifications marked by excellence and originality in past work and proposes to make innovative contributions to the applicant&rsquo;s field or artistic discipline. 

Ability to communicate in destination country, territory, or region: Exhibits the necessary language proficiency and/or has demonstrated their ability to navigate language barriers (e.g. budgeting for interpretation services) to conduct project activities in the proposed destination(s); and demonstrates confidence to independently navigate cultural differences and challenges during the fellowship period. Fellows who travel to the U.S. on an ACC-sponsored J-1 visa must demonstrate that they can speak English confidently per U.S. government regulations (see relevant sections of the New York Fellowship and Individual Fellowship Guidelines).

Fellowship and Grant Opportunities
ACC offers four distinct fellowship and grant types to support immersive cultural exchange. Please carefully review the guidelines below to learn more about our fellowships and grants and open the relevant “Apply now” text to review instructions and begin an application. Please also note that applicants can only apply for one grant type per cycle.

New York Fellowship
The New York Fellowship is a six-month program that offers artists, scholars, and arts professionals from Asia a unique opportunity to immerse themselves in the rich and varied cultural life of New York City and the United States, and to develop their artistic practices and perspectives from this cultural immersion experience.

Learn more about the New York Fellowship. What does the New York Fellowship offer?

Freedom to Explore

A New York Fellowship is a valuable and rare pause in the day-to-day activities of an artist, scholar, or arts professional, giving them a chance to dive into a new, rich cultural landscape–it is not a residency or a public relations or performance tour.

New York Fellows, motivated by their own research and cultural exchange objectives, will spend six months visiting arts and cultural institutions in New York City and around the U.S., attending performances, exhibitions, meeting with other arts professionals, scholars, and members of the local community, participating in workshops and discussions, conducting archival research, and more.

ACC hopes that New York Fellows will use the learnings and insights from this cultural exchange experience to shape their own practice and later contribute to larger artistic and cultural communities back home.

Peer-Learning and Exchange

New York Fellows will join a cohort of fellow artists, scholars, and arts professionals.

Cohort members come from different countries, territories, and regions in Asia, have diverse artistic backgrounds and experiences, and have varying research and cultural exchange objectives.

Through group activities and exploration of New York&rsquo;s arts and cultural communities, New York Fellows have a unique experience learning from each other and developing bonds that can last a lifetime.

Activities and Events

New York Fellows have the opportunity to participate in diverse activities during their six-month program.

Informed by fellows&rsquo; interests and areas of practice, ACC will organize group activities that may include visits to arts and cultural institutions, performances, exhibitions, discussions with local artists and arts professionals from diverse disciplines, and gatherings with local ACC alumni.

New York Fellowship cohorts also often co-organize their own group activities, visits, trips, and meals around the city.

In addition to the scheduled group activities, ACC staff will share a curated, bi-monthly (every other month) events bulletin with recommended exhibitions, performances, festivals, and other cultural events in New York City.

Individualized Support

ACC offers New York Fellows “office hour” appointments during which they can meet with our staff to brainstorm and receive feedback on their fellowship research and activities.

ACC is committed to making connections between current New York Fellows and ACC alumni who have shared interests and relevant expertise and can offer advice.

Staff can connect New York Fellows with resources, potential contacts, and information to advance their research.

Fellows can contact ACC Program Staff to schedule office hours as desired throughout their six-month stay.

International House

New York Fellows are also given the opportunity to reside at the International House (I-House) during their fellowship.

I-House is a residential learning community located in New York City's vibrant Morningside Heights neighborhood.

New York Fellows who choose and are admitted to I-House (subject to availability) will be provided a studio apartment and access to a variety of amenities, including a fitness center, laundry facilities, a dining hall, health and wellness services, study and practice spaces, as well as event programming organized by I-House.

I-House residents will have their housing fee deducted directly from their ACC grant in advance of their arrival, meaning New York Fellows who are I-House residents will not need to process their housing payment on their own.

Independent Housing Option

New York Fellows are not required to reside at I-House and may secure their own housing arrangements. However, please note that ACC is unable to provide assistance with independent housing searches, negotiate rental agreements, or serve as a guarantor. ACC is not liable for New York Fellows&rsquo; independent housing decisions.

Eligibility Requirements

In addition to the general eligibility requirements (see here ), applicants to the New York Fellowship program must carefully review and meet the following eligibility requirements:

Applicants must be citizens or legal permanent residents of one of ACC&rsquo;s eligible countries, territories, and regions.

Note: New York Fellowship applicants cannot be U.S. citizens or U.S. permanent residents.

Applicants must be able to demonstrate at least five years of experience in one of ACC&rsquo;s eligible disciplines at the time of their application.

Applicants, if awarded, must be over the age of 21 by the New York Fellowship start date.

Applicants, if awarded, cannot actively pursue university coursework or teaching (in-person or online) for their degree program during their fellowship. New York Fellows enrolled in a university degree program should take a temporary leave of absence from these activities during their fellowship.

Applicants must feel confident in their ability to speak English in order to participate in conversations and form relationships without special language assistance. While applicants may have different degrees of English proficiency, we expect Fellows to be able to conduct daily tasks, write basic emails, and have the confidence to ask for help. The U.S. government requires all J-1 visa-holders to speak English at a sufficient level.

Applicants cannot be previous recipients of a New York Fellowship.

Fellowship Period

Fellows must commit to pursuing the New York Fellowship for the full duration of one of the two cohort periods below. While applicants are asked to indicate their preferred cohort period, ACC reserves the right to make cohort assignments.

January 1, 2027 – June 30, 2027

July 1, 2027 – December 31, 2027

Fellows must arrive in the U.S. no later than the first week of the program start date and depart no earlier than the last week of the program period.

Fellowship Travel

While New York Fellows may visit other cities and regions of the U.S., ACC strongly discourages international travel during the New York Fellowship, with the exception of medical and family emergencies and fundamental, time-limited (less than ten days) career engagements that are approved by ACC at least 60 days before the fellowship start date (see also the visa requirements below).

Visa Requirements

New York Fellows must come to the U.S. on a J-1 visa that ACC sponsors–no exceptions. The J-1 visa is a non-immigrant visa intended for individuals participating in exchange programs in the U.S. The U.S. government has regulations governing the J-1 visa program that ACC and New York Fellows must follow, including the following:

ACC will begin J-1 visa preparations about four months prior to the start of the New York Fellowship. We kindly ask for New York Fellows&rsquo; patience and cooperation in providing the required information, reviewing documentation, and communicating with ACC staff during this process. Please also note that, while ACC initiates the J-1 visa process as a sponsor, New York Fellows are asked to submit their application (DS-160), pay the application fee, and schedule and attend their visa interviews.

According to the relevant government regulations and under ACC&rsquo;s sponsorship in the J-1 visa program, New York Fellows are not allowed to conduct paid work activities while in the U.S. on their J-1 visa, such as teaching courses virtually, writing articles for payment, or producing work for hire. This includes work for an employer based outside the U.S. or work performed during the fellowship but paid afterwards. If you are in a full-time position, we suggest you ask your employer if you can take a sabbatical or another form of paid or unpaid leave.

The J-1 visa program requires that New York Fellows inform and seek written approval from ACC in advance of any travel outside the U.S. in order to return to the U.S. to complete their fellowship. This written approval includes ACC&rsquo;s signature on the Fellow&rsquo;s DS-2019 (certifying ACC&rsquo;s visa sponsorship) in order to re-enter the U.S., and the Fellow&rsquo;s signature on ACC&rsquo;s International Travel Liability Waiver, which acknowledges that ACC is not responsible for providing New York Fellows assistance when they experience medical, legal, or other incidents or emergencies while traveling outside the U.S. during their fellowship. ACC, at its sole discretion, considers requests for permission to travel outside the U.S. during the New York Fellowship. Work-related international travel requests must be submitted to ACC no fewer than 60 days prior to the fellowship start date.

Grant Amount and Payments

New York Fellows receive grants of $35,000 USD to support their six-month fellowship. An advance payment of $3,000 USD will be made to all New York Fellows, after signing their grant agreement, to pay for travel-related expenses.

Pre-Arrival Expenses Managed by ACC

Please note that the expenses below are deducted from the total grant amount and paid by ACC on behalf of the New York Fellow. After accounting for these deducted expenses and the $3,000 USD advance payment, the remaining grant balance that New York Fellows can expect to receive from ACC, after their arrival in New York City, may range from $10,000-$31,100 USD, depending on their individualized insurance pricing and their housing selection (i.e. International House or independent housing).

$220 USD for the DS-2019 J-1 visa fees

$675-800 USD estimated for six months&rsquo; mandatory travel health insurance

Please note: All New York Fellows are required to have health insurance to remain in compliance with the J-1 visa program. ACC will purchase travel health insurance in advance of the fellowship on the New York Fellow&rsquo;s behalf. The health insurance purchased for New York Fellows is non-negotiable; however, Fellows are welcome to purchase additional health insurance as desired.

$19,400-$20,600 USD for a six-month stay at the International House (if selected by the New York Fellow). Please note that this is an approximate cost estimate for a six-month stay in 2027.

Pre-Arrival Expenses Managed by New York Fellows

New York Fellows are responsible for paying $185 USD separately for their visa application (DS-160), as well as their airfare and other travel-related costs. New York Fellows may use their advance payment to pay for these expenses.

FAQs

Is the New York Fellowship a residency program? No. The New York Fellowship is not a traditional arts residency program in which participants produce new works or carry out their activities in a studio or other facility. The intent of the New York Fellowship (and Individual Fellowship) is to support cultural immersion, exploration, learning, research, and dialogue between people from different cultural backgrounds. New York Fellows&rsquo; research and learning objectives are often based on questions or themes that may inform their artistic practice and/or contribute to their own personal and intellectual development. Fellows&rsquo; research and cultural exchange experiences may also influence their future work after the fellowship concludes; however, the fellowship is not intended for producing or presenting new work.

Can I travel to other cities or states in the U.S. during the New York Fellowship? Yes, New York Fellows can travel to other locations within the U.S., but we ask applicants to note these short visits in their proposals, if possible. As noted in the program requirements, we strongly discourage international travel during the fellowship, except for medical or family emergencies or fundamental and time-limited professional travel that was approved by ACC at least 60 days before the start of the fellowship.

Can I bring my spouse, partner, and/or children for the duration of a New York Fellowship? Spouses, partners, and/or children may come to New York City for short visits during the fellowship; however, we discourage these individuals from staying for the entire fellowship, so that the New York Fellow may focus on their fellowship. Please note that ACC grant funds may not be used to pay for travel or other expenses supporting a guest&rsquo;s visit.

Will ACC provide a visa to my spouse, partner, and/or children? No, ACC does not provide visas to anyone except the New York Fellow.

Can I apply for the New York Fellowship if I am already in the U.S.? U.S. citizens and U.S. permanent residents are not eligible to apply for the New York Fellowship. Artists and arts professionals who are living in the U.S. on another visa type (e.g. O-1) are unlikely to be awarded a New York Fellowship, as ACC&rsquo;s grants are intended to support cultural immersion and exchange in a country, territory, or region that is new or less familiar to the applicant.

Can I apply for a New York Fellowship with a colleague (co-applicant)? No, a New York Fellowship does not allow co-applicants. Please apply for an Individual Fellowship if you are considering a joint fellowship.

Can I receive payments or honoraria for participating in a conference, lecture, or another event while pursuing a New York Fellowship? No, as J-1 visa-holders, New York Fellows cannot accept honoraria or other payments for services or participation in any kind of commercial activity in the U.S. or abroad during the New York Fellowship.

Can I participate in a public performance during the fellowship, even if I do not receive compensation? If the event does not require audience members to purchase tickets and if the event is organized for educational or exchange purposes only (i.e. not for commercial or promotional purposes), New York Fellows may participate in such events. ACC cannot authorize a New York Fellow&rsquo;s participation in events that provide compensation and/or are intended to generate revenue.

How do the New York Fellowship and Individual Fellowship differ? The New York Fellowship and Individual Fellowship may seem similar, as they both support travel to New York and the U.S.; however, there are several key differences:

The New York Fellowship is best suited for more open-ended cultural immersion and exploration, while the Individual Fellows who travel to New York City typically pursue a more specific and focused research plan.

New York Fellows must choose one of two six-month cohorts, while Individual Fellows have the flexibility to propose a one- to six-month fellowship during the respective grant period.

New York Fellows have the opportunity to stay at the International House (I-House) during their fellowship, while Individual Fellows who travel to New York City must identify and arrange their own housing.

Apply now. Please carefully review the instructions below to learn more about submitting an application for the New York Fellowship program. As a reminder, you may submit an application for only one ACC fellowship or grant type per grant cycle.

Deadlines

Applications must be submitted by November 19, 2025, at 9:59 AM Eastern Standard Time (EST).

Letters of recommendation must be uploaded by November 26, 2025, at 9:59 AM EST. Learn more about the letter of recommendation requirements further below.

GoApply

Applications must be submitted through GoApply, ACC&rsquo;s application platform. Previous applicants may log in to their account with their email and password.

Starting on October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT, previous and new GoApply users can click here to log in or create a GoApply account. Once you have logged in or registered with GoApply, you can open the “Opportunities” menu item, and then click on the “apply” button next to “2026 New York Fellowship Application”. GoApply registration instructions are available in English , Chinese , and Japanese .

Please note that ACC&rsquo;s GoApply applications will only be available from October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM Eastern Daylight Time to November 19, 2025, at 9:59 AM EST.

Eligibility Quiz

The application begins with an eligibility quiz, which will ask questions assessing your eligibility based on ACC&rsquo;s general grant guidelines and the New York Fellowship guidelines. Only applicants whose responses confirm their eligibility for the New York Fellowship will be allowed to proceed with the rest of the application.

If you are not sure how to respond to an eligibility quiz question, please contact the relevant ACC representative office (see here ).

Required Application Materials

Applicants must be prepared to provide the application materials listed below. Required items are marked with an asterisk (*).

Passport/biographical data information *

Contact information *

Social media accounts and/or website

Work samples (see below) *

CV/resume *

Biography *

Personal statement that describes your work or research (i.e. an Artist Statement) *

Name and contact information for one individual who will submit a letter of recommendation (see below) *

Names and contact Information for two references (see below) *

Bilingual application responses, as required by region (see below)

Work Samples

Applicants must provide up to three work samples that best exemplify their work. Work sample attachments may include image files (JPEG or PNG) or PDF files containing images, links to videos, audio clips, or other relevant media or materials to support your application. ( See examples of work samples .) Please refer to the work sample guidelines listed below.

Audio/Video-based Samples: Applicants may submit a PDF with URLs for up to three audio or video clips that each contain no more than three minutes of content. Staff and review panelists will review only the first three minutes of audio or video provided in clips that are longer than three minutes.

Image-based Samples: Applicants may submit their image-based work samples in PDF, JPEG, and PNG formats. PDFs may contain no more than two pages of images per work or exhibition sample. Multiple images and captions are allowed on the same page, but they must be from the same work or exhibition sample. You can submit images for up to three works/exhibitions.

Text/Literary Samples: Applicants may submit PDFs containing no more than five pages per work sample (literature, art history, art criticism, etc.).

Multimedia Samples: Applicants may submit a PDF containing a combination of images (no more than two pages), text (no more than five pages), and/or links to video/audio clips (no more than three minutes) for a single work or exhibition.

Recommendation Letter and References

ACC asks you to provide contact information for three separate individuals: one person who will submit a letter of recommendation on your behalf and two references who ACC can contact if we have any questions about you or your proposal.

Conflicts of Interest

The recommender and references should not be ACC trustees, staff, or donors. All applicants will be asked to sign a conflict-of-interest statement attesting that their recommender and references, to the best of their knowledge, are not ACC trustees, staff, or donors.

Letter of Recommendation Deadline

Your recommender must upload their letter of recommendation to GoApply after you have submitted your application. The deadline for the letter of recommendation is November 26, 2025, at 9:59 AM EST . Only after you have submitted your application will your recommender receive an email containing a link and instructions for uploading their letter to GoApply. We recommend that you ask for your recommender&rsquo;s support in advance and that you submit your application early, so that your recommender has enough time to upload their letter. Your application will not be considered complete and will not be reviewed until your letter of recommendation has been uploaded.

Bilingual Applications

In addition to submitting question responses in English, applicants who apply through ACC Hong Kong, ACC Japan, and ACC Taiwan should refer to their respective bilingual application requirements. Please note that the bilingual fillable forms (for completion and upload) and translated eligibility quizzes (for reference) will be made available for download on October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT.

Hong Kong SAR, Macau SAR, and Mainland China (Optional)

In addition to completing the application in English, applicants who are citizens or permanent residents of Hong Kong SAR, Macau SAR, and Mainland China, and are applying through ACC Hong Kong, may also submit an optional copy of their application in Chinese. To do so, please download, complete, and upload to GoApply the bilingual application form provided below. Please note that the application is provided in traditional Chinese, but applicants may provide responses in simplified Chinese, if desired.

New York Fellowship Translated Eligibility Quiz (Traditional Chinese) -- Available October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT

New York Fellowship Bilingual Application Form (Traditional Chinese) -- Available October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT

Japan (Required)

Applicants who are citizens or permanent residents of Japan and are applying through ACC Japan must submit an additional copy of their application in Japanese and a PDF of their CV/resume in both English and Japanese. Descriptions or captions of work samples must also be made available in both English and Japanese. Applicants should download, complete, and upload to GoApply the bilingual application form provided below.

New York Fellowship Translated Eligibility Quiz (Japanese) -- Available October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT

New York Fellowship Bilingual Application Form (Japanese) -- Available October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT

Taiwan ROC (Required)

Applicants who are citizens or permanent residents of Taiwan ROC and are applying through ACC Taiwan must submit an additional copy of their application in traditional Chinese and a PDF of their CV/resume in both English and traditional Chinese. Descriptions or captions of work samples must also be made available in both English and Chinese. Applicants should download, complete, and upload to GoApply the bilingual application form provided below.

New York Fellowship Translated Eligibility Quiz (Traditional Chinese) -- Available October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT

New York Fellowship Bilingual Application Form (Traditional Chinese) -- Available October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT

Individual Fellowship
The Individual Fellowship program offers an opportunity for artists, scholars, and arts professionals in Asia and the United States to pursue research and a self-directed cultural exchange experience in another country, territory, or region.

An Individual Fellowship is not a residency to produce new work, a fund to attend or participate in a single conference or event (i.e. not a travel grant), or an individual&rsquo;s public relations tour. Rather, Individual Fellows explore focused research questions and activities that enable and promote cultural immersion, dialogue, relationship-building, collaboration, and the exchange of knowledge and ideas among peers. These experiences and relationships lead to invaluable creative inspiration, collaborative opportunities, and a more global and nuanced perspective.

Learn more about the Individual Fellowship. What does the Individual Fellowship offer?

Freedom to Explore

ACC offers Individual Fellows grant funding that supports their travel to a country, territory, or region that is new or less familiar to them and where they will pursue their own self-designed research and cultural exchange activities. While each fellowship is unique, examples of some activities that past Individual Fellows have pursued include:

Interviewing or meeting professionals in their field or other stakeholders who can offer relevant information or expertise

Visiting institutions (e.g. studios, museums, galleries, theaters, libraries) or attending events (e.g. exhibitions, performances, lectures, film screenings) that are relevant to the Individual Fellows&rsquo; research and cultural exchange objectives

Participating in workshops, symposia, or discussions that support the Individual Fellows&rsquo; research and bring them into conversations with new communities

Conducting archival research

Individualized Support

ACC support services are intended to enhance a proposed plan of activity, give increased access to artistic communities and cultural resources in the chosen destination(s), and deepen one&rsquo;s cultural exchange experience. This support may include:

Advice and recommendations related to the logistical or substantive aspects of the Individual Fellow&rsquo;s research and activities

Introductions to ACC alumni and other arts professionals and institutions that are relevant to the Individual Fellow&rsquo;s research objectives

Invitations to local ACC events and gatherings, where possible

Visa support for Individual Fellows who travel to the U.S. (see Visa Requirements section below)

Please note that ACC does not have offices and staff throughout Asia; therefore, some support services, such as making specific connections, may be limited. (ACC has its headquarters in New York City and affiliate offices in Hong Kong SAR, Japan, the Philippines, and Taiwan ROC.) Please keep this possibly limited programmatic and logistical support in mind while developing your proposal. Proposals should be feasible, with or without additional guidance from ACC.

Single and Joint Applicants

ACC will consider applications submitted by and designed to support one individual (i.e. a “single applicant”) as well as “joint applicants,” who include a “primary applicant” (responsible for submitting and managing the application) and up to two “co-applicants.”

Joint applications are for two or three artists or arts professionals who share research and cultural exchange objectives and are confident that they can organize and execute their fellowship activities as equal partners. Joint applicants will be asked to explain the above in their application.

Please note that ACC&rsquo;s eligibility and program requirements apply to all applicants (including co-applicants). This means that co-applicants must meet the same eligibility requirements, commit to traveling during the full duration of the proposed fellowship activities (separate trips are not permitted), and have equal levels of participation in the proposed activities (no assistant or secondary roles). Furthermore, ACC will not grant more than $35,000 USD for an Individual Fellowship, regardless of the number of applicants included in the fellowship application.

Application instructions for Single and Joint Applicants can be found in the “Apply now” section found further below.

Personal Eligibility

In addition to the general eligibility requirements (see here ), all Individual Fellowship applicants and their co-applicants must carefully review and meet the following eligibility requirements:

Applicants must be citizens or legal permanent residents of one of ACC&rsquo;s eligible countries, territories, or regions.

Applicants must be able to demonstrate at least five years&rsquo; experience in one of ACC&rsquo;s eligible disciplines at the time of their application.

Applicants, if awarded, must be over the age of 21 by the Individual Fellowship start date.

Applicants, if awarded, cannot actively pursue university coursework or teaching (in person or online) for their degree program during their fellowship. Individual Fellows enrolled in a degree program should take a temporary leave of absence from these activities during their fellowship.

Applicants who wish to pursue an Individual Fellowship in the U.S., which requires a J-1 visa, must feel confident in their ability to use English when participating in conversations and building relationships without special language assistance. While applicants may have different degrees of English proficiency, we expect Fellows to be able to conduct daily tasks, write basic emails, and have the confidence to ask for help. The U.S. government requires all J-1 visa-holders to speak English at a sufficient level.

Eligible Fellowship Travel Destinations

Applicants to the Individual Fellowship program may propose travel to the following countries, territories, and regions: Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Cambodia, China (Mainland), East Timor, Hong Kong SAR, India, Indonesia, Japan, Korea, Laos, Macau SAR, Malaysia, Mongolia, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Taiwan ROC, Thailand, United States, and Vietnam

Please also note the following:

Applicants cannot propose travel to the country, territory, or region where they are currently living, regardless of citizenship or permanent residence status.

Applicants who propose traveling to a country, territory, or region that they know well, where they have previously spent a considerable amount of time (i.e. more than one year), or where they hold citizenship status, must demonstrate a strong rationale for how their proposed Individual Fellowship provides a unique and meaningful opportunity for cultural exchange and immersion.

Applicants who propose traveling to multiple countries, territories, or regions and/or shorter travel durations are generally less competitive.

Fellowship Travel Dates and Duration

All ACC fellowship travel must occur within the grant period: August 1, 2026 – December 31, 2027.

Individual Fellowships must have a duration of at least one month, but no more than six months. 

ACC believes that cultural exchange and immersion is enhanced when Individual Fellows spend a greater period of time (at least two months, preferably) exploring one place, rather than visiting multiple countries, territories, or regions for a shorter period of time. It is also important to consider logistical challenges and/or restrictions related to traveling to multiple countries, territories, or regions during a fellowship.

Applicants who wish to pursue a fellowship in the U.S. must propose spending at least 30 consecutive days in the U.S. 

Fellowships in the U.S. cannot commence prior to October 1, 2026, due to the time needed to administer J-1 visas (see Visa Requirements section below).

Applicants who wish to pursue a fellowship in Asia must propose at least 30 cumulative (total) days in Asia. 

Applicants who are unable to secure a visa that allows them to travel for more than 30 consecutive days may propose multiple trips that add up to at least 30 cumulative days. These individual trips may not be shorter than 14 consecutive days, with no more than 14 days between each trip.

Applicants who propose multiple brief trips to the same destination should explain how they will fully immerse themselves in another culture despite these disruptions.

Applicants who propose a single brief trip (i.e. three weeks) to one destination as part of a multi-destination itinerary (e.g. three weeks in China after two months in Japan) should also provide a rationale for such brief visits.

ACC strongly discourages travel outside the proposed destinations during Individual Fellowships, with the exception of medical and family emergencies (see also the Visa Requirements section below). Individual Fellows who have essential and unavoidable career-related travel needs must submit a change request form seeking ACC&rsquo;s approval at least 60 days before the fellowship start date.

Visa Requirements

Fellowships in the U.S.

Individual Fellows who travel to the U.S. for their fellowship and who do not have a U.S. passport must obtain a J-1 visa that ACC sponsors–no exceptions. The J-1 visa is a non-immigrant visa intended for individuals participating in exchange programs in the U.S. The U.S. government has regulations governing the J-1 visa program that ACC and Individual Fellows must follow, including the following:

ACC will begin J-1 visa preparations about four months prior to the start of the Individual Fellowship. We kindly ask for Individual Fellows&rsquo; patience and cooperation in providing the required information, reviewing documentation, and communicating with ACC staff during this process. Please also note that, while ACC initiates the J-1 visa process as a sponsor, Individual Fellows are asked to submit their application (DS-160), pay the application fee, and schedule and attend their visa interviews.

According to the relevant U.S. government regulations and under ACC&rsquo;s sponsorship in the J-1 visa program, Individual Fellows are not allowed to conduct paid work activities while in the U.S., such as teaching courses virtually, writing articles for payment, or producing works for hire. This includes work for an employer based outside the U.S. or work performed during the fellowship but paid afterwards. If you are in a full-time position, we suggest you ask your employer if you can take a sabbatical or another form of paid or unpaid leave.

The J-1 visa program requires that Individual Fellows inform and seek written approval from ACC in advance of any travel outside the U.S. in order to return to the U.S. to complete their fellowship. This written approval includes ACC&rsquo;s signature on the Fellow&rsquo;s DS-2019 (certifying ACC&rsquo;s visa sponsorship) in order to re-enter the U.S., and the Fellow&rsquo;s signature on ACC&rsquo;s International Travel Liability Waiver, which acknowledges that ACC is not responsible for providing Individual Fellows assistance when they experience medical, legal, or other incidents or emergencies while traveling outside the U.S. during their fellowship. ACC, at its sole discretion, considers requests for permission to travel outside the U.S. during the Individual Fellowship. Work-related international travel requests must be submitted to ACC no fewer than 60 days prior to the fellowship start date.

Fellowships in Asia

Individual Fellows who travel to or within Asia for their fellowship are responsible for securing their visas, as needed. This includes collecting and submitting the necessary application materials, scheduling visa appointments, and paying for necessary fees, which may be paid with ACC grant funds if included in the budget.

Before applying for an Individual Fellowship, applicants interested in pursuing a fellowship in Asia must carefully review the travel regulations made available by the government of their destination country, territory, or region and understand the requirements and procedures for securing visas and other travel permissions. Applicants who are unsure of their eligibility to travel to their destination(s) should contact the nearest embassy or consulate of their travel destination for additional information.

Grant Amount and Budget

Individual Fellows may receive up to $35,000 USD in grant funding. ACC determines grant award amounts based on a review of the applicant&rsquo;s proposed budget, activities, travel destination(s) and duration, and overall application quality. ACC asks applicants to submit a budget that is reasonable, realistic, and justified with regards to the plan of activities, travel costs, visa-related expenses, travel health insurance, interpretation services (if necessary), and the cost of living in the country, territory, or region where the fellowship will take place. Please also note that grant amounts may be adjusted if there are changes to the proposed fellowship.

Eligible Grant Expenses

Applicants should only include eligible expenses in their budget. Eligible expenses include, but are not limited to:

Airfare (economy class only)

Local and regional ground transportation

Accommodation

Food

Other daily living expenses

Visa-related fees and expenses, if necessary 

Individual Fellowships in the U.S.: ACC will deduct $220 USD from your grant to pay your Student and Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS) processing fee (I-901) for the J-1 visa. Grantees must pay an additional $185 USD fee for their J-1 visa application.

Mandatory travel health insurance and other insurance as needed 

Individual Fellowships in the U.S.: ACC will deduct from the grant a travel health insurance fee that varies depending on your age and travel duration (for reference, generally $675–800 USD for a six-month trip to the U.S.).

Individual Fellowships in Asia: ACC requires Individual Fellows to purchase and provide proof of mandatory travel health insurance with the following coverage requirements: at least $100,000 USD per accident or illness, at least $25,000 USD for repatriation expenses, and at least $50,000 USD for medical evacuation, with a deductible under $500 USD. ACC suggests that you obtain insurance estimates in advance of submitting your budget.

Interpretation services, if necessary

Costs and fees relevant to the cultural exchange and immersion activities, research, and objectives

Ineligible Grant Expenses

Examples of ineligible expenses that you cannot include in your budget or purchase with ACC grant funds:

First-class, business class, or other airfare higher than economy class (with exceptions for those with medical-based exemptions)

Production-related expenses, including technical equipment, staffing (e.g. filming and photography crews, post-production, editors, etc.), and publication costs

Any expenses to support family or other individuals who are not part of the proposal

For additional information about Indvidual Fellowship budgets, including ACC&rsquo;s budget template and upload instructions, please see the "Apply now" section below.

Payment Schedule

ACC will issue an advance payment to Individual Fellows after they have signed a grant agreement and submitted an “Information Collection Form” with updated information about the grantee and their activities. Individual Fellows with a grant less than $5,000 USD will receive an advance payment of $1,000 USD. Individual Fellows with a grant amount greater than or equal to $5,000 USD will receive an advance payment of $3,000 USD.

ACC will issue the remaining grant amount after Individual Fellows submit further details and travel documentation through an “Arrival Preparation Form” that ACC sends to Individual Fellows about four months prior to the start of their travel.

FAQs

My co-applicant does not meet ACC&rsquo;s eligibility guidelines. May I still apply? No, all applicants must meet the eligibility requirements. You may still apply for an Individual Fellowship, but please reimagine your application without the co-applicant.

I am interested in submitting a joint Individual Fellowship application, but my co-applicant is from another country. Which ACC office will receive my application and answer my questions? Joint applications will be submitted to the ACC office that corresponds with the citizenship or permanent resident status of the primary applicant. For example, if the primary applicant is a Japanese citizen and the co-applicant is an Indonesian citizen, the application will be submitted to ACC Japan. The two applicants may direct their questions to ACC Japan.

Can my spouse, significant other, or another family member apply with me as a co-applicant for a joint Individual Fellowship? Yes, they may apply as co-applicants, but only if they meet all of ACC&rsquo;s eligibility requirements. They must also contribute equally to the planning and execution of the proposed fellowship activities. The Individual Fellowship cannot simply be used to support a family member who wishes to travel with the primary applicant.

Can my spouse, partner, and/or children visit me during an Individual Fellowship? Spouses, partners, and/or children may visit for short periods during the fellowship term; however, these guests are discouraged from accompanying Individual Fellows for the entire duration of the fellowship term. ACC is not responsible for visitors&rsquo; visas and logistics, and ACC funding cannot be used towards visitor expenses.

My fellowship will take place in the U.S. Will ACC provide a visa to my spouse, partner, and/or children? No, ACC does not sponsor visas for anyone except the Individual Fellow.

Can I participate in an exhibition or conference while pursuing an Individual Fellowship? ACC strongly encourages Individual Fellows to focus on their proposed activities and cultural immersion throughout the fellowship experience. In some cases, conferences, events, and exhibitions may directly relate to the proposed fellowship activities. However, Individual Fellows may not be allowed to accept payments for participating in these activities depending on the immigration, labor, and tax laws of the country, territory, or region where they pursue their fellowship (see question below).

Can I engage in commercial or paid activities (e.g. conferences, lectures, writing articles, remote employment) during an Individual Fellowship? No. The fellowship is intended to provide a break in Individual Fellows&rsquo; day-to-day activities. Furthermore, Individual Fellows must be mindful of relevant immigration, labor, and tax laws of the country, territory, or region where they pursue their fellowship. Such laws may prohibit or otherwise restrict fellows&rsquo; ability to engage in paid work activities for both domestic and international employers. Governments may consider paid activities to include participation in conferences or other events that provide an honorarium or speaker fee. As a J-1 visa sponsor for Individual Fellows who travel to the U.S., ACC&rsquo;s New York office will only authorize activities described in the fellowship proposal. ACC&rsquo;s New York office will not authorize or support other paid work activities.

I am from a country in Asia and would like to propose fellowship travel to another country in Asia and the U.S. Is this possible? Yes, this is possible, but such applicants must justify the significance of spending time in another country in Asia and the U.S., and how these two trips fit within a cohesive fellowship proposal instead of two separate fellowship proposals.

Can I travel outside the destination country, territory, or region during the fellowship (e.g. a trip to one&rsquo;s home country)? The Individual Fellowship is intended for uninterrupted, long-term cultural exchange and immersion. With the exception of medical or family emergencies, ACC strongly discourages grantees from leaving their destination country, territory, or region during their designated travel period. Individual Fellows who learn about fundamental career-related travel after signing their grant agreement must obtain ACC&rsquo;s approval for any travel changes by submitting a change request form at least 60 days prior to the fellowship start date and signing a grant memo. Individual Fellows who travel to the U.S. on a J-1 visa must also sign ACC&rsquo;s International Travel Liability Waiver and secure ACC&rsquo;s signature on their DS-2019 in order to re-enter the U.S. if they temporarily leave the U.S. during their fellowship.

I am interested in pursuing an ACC fellowship in New York, but how do the Individual Fellowship and New York Fellowship differ? The Individual Fellowship and New York Fellowship may seem similar, as they both support travel to New York and the U.S.; however, there are several key differences:

Individual Fellows have more flexible timing requirements for their fellowship travel (one to six months during the grant period), while New York Fellows must travel to the U.S. for the full six-month fellowship period to which they are assigned.

Individual Fellows typically pursue more specific and focused research objectives, while the New York Fellowship is best suited for more open-ended cultural immersion and exploration.

Individual Fellows who travel to New York must identify and arrange their own housing, while New York Fellows have the opportunity to stay at the International House (I-House) during their fellowship.

Apply now. Please carefully review the instructions below to learn more about submitting an application for the Individual Fellowship program. As a reminder, you may submit an application for only one ACC fellowship or grant type per grant cycle.

Deadlines

Applications must be submitted by November 19, 2025, at 9:59 AM Eastern Standard Time (EST).

Letters of recommendation must be uploaded by November 26, 2025, at 9:59 AM EST. Learn more about the letter of recommendation requirements further below.

GoApply

Applications must be submitted through GoApply, ACC&rsquo;s application platform. Previous applicants may log in to their account with their email and password.

Starting on October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT, previous and new GoApply users can click here to log in or create a GoApply account . Once you have logged in or registered with GoApply, you can open the “Opportunities” menu item, and then click on the “apply” button next to “2026 Individual Fellowship Application (Single Applicant)” or “2026 Individual Fellowship Application (Joint Applicants)”. GoApply registration instructions are available in English , Chinese , and Japanese .

If you are submitting a joint Individual Fellowship application (i.e. an application with one or two co-applicants), the primary applicant will create a GoApply account and prepare and submit the application on behalf of their co-applicants. Co-applicants may use the primary applicant&rsquo;s GoApply account to independently access and complete their respective portions of the application. Please note that only one applicant should access the application at a time in order to avoid losing unsaved work or overwriting another applicant&rsquo;s work.

Please note that ACC&rsquo;s GoApply applications will only be available from October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM Eastern Daylight Time to November 19, 2025, at 9:59 AM EST.

Eligibility Quiz

The application begins with an eligibility quiz, which will ask questions assessing your eligibility based on ACC&rsquo;s general grant guidelines and the Individual Fellowship guidelines. Only applicants whose responses confirm their eligibility for the Individual Fellowship will be allowed to proceed with the rest of the application.

If you are not sure how to respond to an eligibility quiz question, please contact the relevant ACC representative office (see here ).

Required Application Materials

Applicants, including co-applicants (if a joint application) , must be prepared to provide the application materials listed below. Required items are marked with an asterisk (*).

Passport/biographical data information *

Contact information *

Social media accounts and/or website

Work samples (see below) *

CV/resume *

Biography *

Personal statement that describes your work or research (i.e. an Artist Statement) *

Name and contact information for one individual who will submit a letter of recommendation (see below) *

Names and contact information for references (see below) *

Budget (see below) *

Bilingual application responses, as required by region (see below)

Work Samples

Applicants must provide up to three work samples that best exemplify their work. Work sample attachments may include image files (JPEG or PNG) or PDF files containing images, links to videos, audio clips, or other relevant media or materials to support your application. ( See examples of work samples. ) Please refer to the work sample guidelines listed below.

Audio/Video-based Samples: Applicants may submit a PDF with URLs for up to three audio or video clips that each contain no more than three minutes of content. Staff and review panelists will review only the first three minutes of audio or video provided in clips that are longer than three minutes.

Image-based Samples: Applicants may submit their image-based work samples in PDF, JPEG, and PNG formats. PDFs may contain no more than two pages of images per work or exhibition sample. Multiple images and captions are allowed on the same page, but they must be from the same work or exhibition sample. You can submit images for up to three works/exhibitions.

Text/Literary Samples: Applicants may submit PDFs containing no more than five pages per work sample (literature, art history, art criticism, etc.).

Multimedia Samples: Applicants may submit a PDF containing a combination of images (no more than two pages), text (no more than five pages), and/or links to video/audio clips (no more than three minutes) for a single work or exhibition.

Recommendation Letter and References

ACC asks each Individual Fellow applicant to provide contact information for one person who will submit a letter of recommendation on their behalf. Co-applicants must each have their own separate recommender.

If you are applying as a single applicant , you must also provide contact information for two references whom ACC can contact if we have any questions about you or your proposal. References cannot be the same person who submits the letter of recommendation.

If you are submitting a joint application , you and your co-applicant(s) must each provide contact information for one reference whom ACC can contact if we have any questions about you, your co-applicants, or your proposal.

Conflicts of Interest

The recommender and references should not be ACC trustees, staff, or donors. All applicants will be asked to sign a conflict-of-interest statement attesting that their recommender and references, to the best of their knowledge, are not ACC trustees, staff, or donors.

Letter of Recommendation Deadline

Your recommender must upload their letter(s) of recommendation to GoApply after you have submitted your application. The deadline for the letter of recommendation is November 26, 2025, at 9:59 AM EST . Only after you have submitted your application will your recommender(s) receive an email containing a link and instructions for uploading their letter(s) to GoApply. We recommend that you contact your recommender(s) in advance to ask for their support and that you submit your application early, so that your recommender(s) has/have enough time to upload their letter(s). Your application will not be considered complete and will not be reviewed until your letter(s) of recommendation has/have been uploaded.

Uploading a Budget

Applicants must upload a proposed budget for their Individual Fellowship using the Excel template provided in the GoApply application&rsquo;s budget section. The template will ask for detailed budget information, including descriptions of proposed expenses, quantities, estimated USD amounts, and links or comments justifying these expenses, as needed. For more information about eligible and ineligible expenses and other budget requirements, please refer to the Grant Amount and Budget section in the Individual Fellowship guidelines.

Bilingual Applications

In addition to submitting question responses in English, applicants who apply through ACC Hong Kong, ACC Japan, and ACC Taiwan should refer to their respective bilingual application requirements. Please note that the bilingual fillable forms (for completion and upload) and translated eligibility quizzes (for reference) will be made available for download on October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT.

Joint Applicants: If you are preparing an application with one or two co-applicants, you only need to submit one bilingual application, if required.

Hong Kong SAR, Macau SAR, and Mainland China (Optional)

In addition to completing the application in English, applicants who are citizens or permanent residents of Hong Kong SAR, Macau SAR, and Mainland China, and are applying through ACC Hong Kong, may also submit an optional copy of their application in Chinese. To do so, please download, complete, and upload to GoApply the bilingual application form provided below. Please note that the application is provided in traditional Chinese, but applicants may provide responses in simplified Chinese, if desired.

Individual Fellowship (Single Applicant) Translated Eligibility Quiz (Traditional Chinese) -- Available October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT

Individual Fellowship (Single Applicant) Bilingual Application Form (Traditional Chinese) -- Available October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT

Individual Fellowship (Joint Applicants) Translated Eligibility Quiz (Traditional Chinese) -- Available October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT

Individual Fellowship (Joint Applicants) Bilingual Application Form (Traditional Chinese) -- Available October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT

Japan (Required)

Applicants who are citizens or permanent residents of Japan and are applying through ACC Japan must submit an additional copy of their application in Japanese and a PDF of their CV/resume in both English and Japanese. Descriptions or captions of work samples must also be made available in both English and Japanese. Applicants should download, complete, and upload to GoApply the bilingual application form provided below.

Individual Fellowship (Single Applicant) Translated Eligibility Quiz (Japanese) -- Available October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT

Individual Fellowship (Single Applicant) Bilingual Application Form (Japanese) -- Available October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT

Individual Fellowship (Joint Applicants) Translated Eligibility Quiz (Japanese) -- Available October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT

Individual Fellowship (Joint Applicants) Bilingual Application Form (Japanese) -- Available October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT

Taiwan ROC (Required)

Applicants who are citizens or permanent residents of Taiwan ROC and are applying through ACC Taiwan must submit an additional copy of their application in traditional Chinese and a PDF of their CV/resume in both English and traditional Chinese. Descriptions or captions of work samples must also be made available in both English and Chinese. Applicants should download, complete, and upload to GoApply the bilingual application form provided below.

Individual Fellowship (Single Applicant) Translated Eligibility Quiz (Traditional Chinese) -- Available October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT

Individual Fellowship (Single Applicant) Bilingual Application Form (Traditional Chinese) -- Available October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT

Individual Fellowship (Joint Applicants) Translated Eligibility Quiz (Traditional Chinese) -- Available October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT

Individual Fellowship (Joint Applicants) Bilingual Application Form (Traditional Chinese) -- Available October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT

Graduate Fellowship
ACC gives a small number of Graduate Fellowship grants to support the travel and living expenses of graduate students from Asia who choose to study in the United States because comparable programs are not available in their home country, territory, or region and/or because they work in a field that is underrepresented in their home country, territory, or region.

ACC&rsquo;s Graduate Fellowship program aims to advance international cultural exchange and to enrich and broaden scholarly narratives and critical discourse by increasing access to academic training in the arts and cultural fields.

Learn more about the Graduate Fellowship. What does the Graduate Fellowship offer?

Funding for Travel and Living Expenses

ACC&rsquo;s Graduate Fellowships provide $15,000 USD for one academic year, with the possibility of renewing for one additional year. One academic year in this application cycle includes the full-time pursuit of coursework from Fall 2026 to Spring 2027 or from Spring 2027 to Fall 2027.

ACC&rsquo;s grant funding is intended to cover Graduate Fellows&rsquo; travel and living expenses related to the coursework portion of their graduate degree program. ACC will not provide grants to applicants who are only in the fieldwork research or thesis-writing phase of their graduate studies. ACC&rsquo;s grant funding does not support tuition or direct research expenses (e.g. travel for fieldwork, equipment, etc.).

For more information about the Graduate Fellowship payment schedule, please see further below.

Connection to the ACC Community

In addition to supporting their travel and living expenses, ACC welcomes Graduate Fellows into a growing global community of artists, arts professionals, scholars, and institutions that have benefited from and continue to support ACC&rsquo;s mission. ACC staff may make introductions to alumni in a relevant field, where possible. Graduate Fellows are also invited to share news about their performances, exhibitions, publications, and other important updates through our newsletters and events page.

Eligibility Requirements

In addition to the general eligibility requirements (see here ), applicants to the Graduate Fellowship program must carefully review and meet the following eligibility requirements:

Applicants must be citizens or legal permanent residents of one of ACC&rsquo;s eligible countries, territories, and regions. 

Note: U.S. citizens, including dual-nationals, and U.S. permanent residents are not eligible to apply for a Graduate Fellowship.

Applicants&rsquo; graduate degree programs must be in one of ACC&rsquo;s 16 eligible disciplines

Applicants must be enrolled in full-time, in-residence degree programs within the U.S. OR able to provide proof of admission and acceptance to an accredited university by April 1, 2026.

Applicants must pursue at least two consecutive semesters of full-time coursework during the grant period (August 1, 2026 – December 31, 2027). 

Applicants who have already completed the coursework phase of their graduate education are not eligible. ACC will not provide grants to applicants who are only in the fieldwork research or thesis-writing phase of their graduate studies.

Applicants in part-time, summer-only, or online graduate programs are not eligible.

Applicants in non-degree programs are not eligible.

Visa Requirements

Graduate Fellows must have a valid student visa to attend their degree programs in the U.S. Please note that ACC does not sponsor Graduate Fellows' student visas. Graduate Fellows should contact their current or prospective university for further information.

Payment Schedule

The Graduate Fellowship award follows a three-part payment schedule that commences after the applicant accepts their award, signs ACC&rsquo;s grant agreement, and submits ACC&rsquo;s Information Collection Form with further details about the applicant and their graduate program. Grant decisions will be announced in mid-May 2026.

Advance Payment: Upon submission of the Information Collection Form, ACC will process an Advance Payment of $3,000 USD to the Graduate Fellow.

Fall Semester Payment: ACC will process a $6,000 USD payment on October 1, after the Graduate Fellow submits additional information confirming their student status.

Spring Semester Payment: ACC will process a $6,000 USD payment on February 1, after the Graduate Fellow submits additional information re-confirming their student status.

Please note that Graduate Fellows&rsquo; degree programs may start in the spring semester. In this case, an advance payment will be made in the preceding fall, the first (spring) semester payment will be made on February 1, and the second (fall) semester payment will be made on October 1.

Grant Renewal

Graduate Fellows may be eligible for a renewal of their grant funding for up to one additional academic year (i.e. two semesters of coursework) pending ACC&rsquo;s review of their academic record during their first year of ACC-supported study and proof of enrollment for the second year of coursework. ACC will, at its sole discretion, review the submission, determine the acceptance or refusal of the renewal request, and inform the Graduate Fellow once a decision is made.

FAQs

I have applied for graduate school, but I have not been admitted yet. Can I apply for a Graduate Fellowship? Yes, you are welcome to apply, but ACC must receive proof of admission by April 1, 2026 to award a fellowship.

I am currently enrolled in a graduate program. Am I still eligible to apply for the Graduate Fellowship? Yes, you are eligible to apply if you plan to enroll in full-time coursework for a full academic year during the grant period, either from Fall 2026 to Spring 2027 or from Spring 2027 to Fall 2027.

Can ACC help me apply or get into graduate school? No, ACC cannot help prospective students with their applications or provide letters of recommendation.

Can ACC provide advice regarding specific graduate programs in the U.S.? No, ACC cannot provide advice on specific graduate programs.

Apply now. Please carefully review the instructions below to learn more about submitting an application for the Graduate Fellowship program. As a reminder, you may submit an application for only one ACC fellowship or grant type per grant cycle.

Deadlines

Applications must be submitted by November 19, 2025, at 9:59 AM Eastern Standard Time (EST).

Letters of recommendation must be uploaded by November 26, 2025, at 9:59 AM EST. Learn more about the letter of recommendation requirements further below.

GoApply

Applications must be submitted through GoApply, ACC&rsquo;s application platform. Previous applicants may log in to their account with their email and password.

Starting on October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT, previous and new GoApply users can click here to log in or create a GoApply account. Once you have logged in or registered with GoApply, you can open the “Opportunities” menu item, and then click on the “apply” button next to “Graduate Fellowship.” GoApply registration instructions are available in English , Chinese , and Japanese .

Please note that ACC&rsquo;s GoApply applications will only be available from October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM Eastern Daylight Time to November 19, 2025, at 9:59 AM EST.

Eligibility Quiz

The application begins with an eligibility quiz, which will ask questions assessing your eligibility based on ACC&rsquo;s general grant guidelines and the Graduate Fellowship guidelines. Only applicants whose responses confirm their eligibility for the Graduate Fellowship will be allowed to proceed with the rest of the application.

If you are not sure how to respond to an eligibility quiz question, please contact the relevant ACC representative office (see here ).

Required Application Materials

Applicants must be prepared to provide the application materials listed below. Required items are marked with an asterisk (*).

Passport/biographical data information *

Contact information *

Social media accounts and/or website

Work samples (see below) *

CV/resume *

Biography *

Personal statement that describes your work or research (i.e. an Artist Statement) *

Name and contact information for one individual who will submit a letter of recommendation (see below) *

Names and contact Information for two references (see below) *

Graduate program information (name[s] of current or prospective institution[s], title of degree program, current or anticipated program dates, etc.) *

Graduate program admissions letter (if available)

Bilingual application responses, as required by region (see below)

Work Samples

Applicants must provide up to three work samples that best exemplify their work. Work sample attachments may include image files (JPEG or PNG) or PDF files containing images, links to videos, audio clips, or other relevant media or materials to support your application. ( See examples of work samples . ) Please refer to the work sample guidelines listed below.

Audio/Video-based Samples: Applicants may submit a PDF with URLs for up to three audio or video clips that each contain no more than three minutes of content. Staff and review panelists will review only the first three minutes of audio or video provided in clips that are longer than three minutes.

Image-based Samples: Applicants may submit their image-based work samples in PDF, JPEG, and PNG formats. PDFs may contain no more than two pages of images per work or exhibition sample. Multiple images and captions are allowed on the same page, but they must be from the same work or exhibition sample. You can submit images for up to three works/exhibitions.

Text/Literary Samples: Applicants may submit PDFs containing no more than five pages per work sample (literature, art history, art criticism, etc.).

Multimedia Samples: Applicants may submit a PDF containing a combination of images (no more than two pages), text (no more than five pages), and/or links to video/audio clips (no more than three minutes) for a single work or exhibition.

Recommendation Letter and References

ACC asks you to provide contact information for three separate individuals: one person who will submit a letter of recommendation on your behalf and two references whom ACC can contact if we have any questions about you or your proposal.

Conflicts of Interest

The recommender and references should not be ACC trustees, staff, or donors. All applicants will be asked to sign a conflict-of-interest statement attesting that their recommender and references, to the best of their knowledge, are not ACC trustees, staff, or donors.

Letter of Recommendation Deadline

Your recommender must upload their letter of recommendation to GoApply after you have submitted your application. The deadline for the letter of recommendation is November 26, 2025, at 9:59 AM EST . Only after you have submitted your application will your recommender receive an email containing a link and instructions for uploading their letter to GoApply. We recommend that you ask for your recommender&rsquo;s support in advance and that you submit your application early, so that your recommender has enough time to upload their letter. Your application will not be considered complete and will not be reviewed until your letter of recommendation has been uploaded.

Bilingual Applications

In addition to submitting question responses in English, applicants who apply through ACC Hong Kong, ACC Japan, and ACC Taiwan should refer to their respective bilingual application requirements. Please note that the bilingual fillable forms (for completion and upload) and translated eligibility quizzes (for reference) will be made available for download on October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT.

Hong Kong SAR, Macau SAR, and Mainland China (Optional)

In addition to completing the application in English, applicants who are citizens or permanent residents of Hong Kong SAR, Macau SAR, and Mainland China, and are applying through ACC Hong Kong, may also submit an optional copy of their application in Chinese. To do so, please download, complete, and upload to GoApply the bilingual application form provided below. Please note that the application is provided in traditional Chinese, but applicants may provide responses in simplified Chinese, if desired.

Graduate Fellowship Translated Eligibility Quiz (Traditional Chinese) -- Available October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT

Graduate Fellowship Bilingual Application Form (Traditional Chinese) -- Available October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT

Japan (Required)

Applicants who are citizens or permanent residents of Japan and are applying through ACC Japan must submit an additional copy of their application in Japanese and a PDF of their CV/resume in both English and Japanese. Descriptions or captions of work samples must also be made available in both English and Japanese. Applicants should download, complete, and upload to GoApply the bilingual application form provided below.

Graduate Fellowship Translated Eligibility Quiz (Japanese) -- Available October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT

Graduate Fellowship Bilingual Application Form (Japanese) -- Available October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT

Taiwan ROC (Required)

Applicants who are citizens or permanent residents of Taiwan ROC and are applying through ACC Taiwan must submit an additional copy of their application in traditional Chinese and a PDF of their CV/resume in both English and traditional Chinese. Descriptions or captions of work samples must also be made available in both English and Chinese. Applicants should download, complete, and upload to GoApply the bilingual application form provided below.

Graduate Fellowship Translated Eligibility Quiz (Traditional Chinese) -- Available October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT

Graduate Fellowship Bilingual Application Form (Traditional Chinese) -- Available October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT

Organization Grant
The Asian Cultural Council&rsquo;s (ACC) Organization Grant program offers an opportunity for arts and culture organizations in Asia and the United States to pursue travel and activities that enable a deep cultural exchange experience for the organization, their staff, and other individuals and communities with whom they connect.

ACC&rsquo;s Organization Grants support a range of activities that advance international dialogue, the sharing of practices and ideas, and the building of relationships across borders. Organization Grants may support travel to another country, territory, or region for their activities and/or hosting activity participants in the country, territory, or region where the organization is based.

Learn more about Organization Grants. What do ACC&rsquo;s Organization Grants offer?

Exploration and Exchange

ACC offers Organization Grantees funding to conduct cultural immersion, research, and to increase access to artistic communities or cultural resources in a specific country, territory, or region, and exchange knowledge with peers. Such programming supports relationship-building across borders, encourages more global and nuanced perspectives among organization staff and activity participants, and can develop capacity and inspiration for future cultural exchange opportunities.

Individualized Support

ACC support services are intended to enhance the proposed plan of activity, increase access to artistic communities and cultural resources in the chosen destination(s), and deepen the cultural exchange experience. Support services may include:

Advice and recommendations related to the logistical or substantive aspects of the Organization Grantee&rsquo;s activities

Introductions to ACC alumni and other arts professionals and institutions that are relevant to the Organization Grantee&rsquo;s research and cultural exchange objectives

Invitations to local ACC events and gatherings, where possible

Please note that ACC does not have offices and staff throughout Asia; therefore, some support services, such as making specific connections, may be limited. (ACC has its headquarters in New York City and affiliate offices in Hong Kong SAR, Japan, the Philippines, and Taiwan ROC.) Please keep this possibly limited programmatic and logistical support in mind while developing your proposal. Proposals should be feasible, with or without additional guidance from ACC.

Organization Eligibility

Organizations that wish to apply must meet the following requirements:

The organization must be either a nonprofit organization, a government-affiliated or government-sponsored arts or cultural institution (e.g. national museums, national or local performing arts centers, etc.), or an academic or higher education institution.

The organization must be legally registered and based in one of ACC&rsquo;s eligible countries, territories, or regions (see the full list here ).

The organization needs to demonstrate that they have at least five years of artistic and/or cultural programming.

Activity Lead and Activity Participant Eligibility

Organization Grants require the applying organization to designate a primary contact, an activity lead, and activity participants .

The primary contact is the organization staff member or representative who submits and manages the application on behalf of the organization.

The activity lead will manage the execution of grant activities in the destination country, territory, or region. Please note that the activity lead may also be the same person as the primary contact, if the activity lead is also responsible for submitting and managing the application.

Activity participants support and/or take part in the grant activities in the country, territory, or region where they take place. Activity participants may include organization staff as well as individuals from outside the organization.

The organization&rsquo;s activity lead and all activity participants must be citizens or legal permanent residents of at least one of ACC&rsquo;s eligible countries, territories, or regions. The activity lead and activity participants do not need to share the same citizenship/residency status, nor do they need to be citizens or permanent residents of the same country, territory, or region where the organization is based. For example, a Singaporean organization&rsquo;s director serving in the activity lead role may be a citizen of Malaysia, while activity participants may be citizens of several different countries in Southeast Asia.

Grant Activity Travel

Organization Grants support one to six months of travel for the activity lead and/or activity participants to an eligible country, territory, or region. Organization Grantees may send the activity lead and activity participants to another country, territory, or region to execute their proposed activities. Organization Grantees may also receive or “host” activity participants who travel to the country, territory, or region where the Organization Grantee is based.

Eligible Destinations

Eligible countries, territories, and regions for grant activity travel include: Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Cambodia, China (Mainland), East Timor, Hong Kong SAR, India, Indonesia, Japan, Korea, Laos, Macau SAR, Malaysia, Mongolia, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Taiwan ROC, Thailand, United States, and Vietnam.

Please also note the following:

Applicants who propose travel to a country, territory, or region where the activity lead and/or activity participants have previously spent a considerable amount of time (more than one year, cumulatively) must demonstrate a strong rationale for how their proposed grant activities provide a unique and meaningful opportunity for cultural exchange and immersion.

Applicants who propose travel to multiple countries, territories, or regions and/or shorter travel durations are generally less competitive.

ACC does not sponsor visas for Organization Grantees. Organization Grantees are responsible for securing visas and other travel permissions for their activity lead and activity participants, as required.

Grant Travel Dates and Minimum Duration

All ACC-funded travel must occur within the grant period: August 1, 2026 – December 31, 2027.

Applicants who propose travel to the U.S. must plan to spend at least 30 consecutive days in the U.S.

Applicants who propose travel to or within Asia must propose spending at least 30 cumulative (total) days in Asia. 

Applicants who are unable to secure visas that allow them to travel for more than 30 consecutive days may propose multiple trips that add up to at least 30 cumulative days. These individual trips may not be shorter than 14 consecutive days, with no more than 14 days between each trip. Applicants who propose multiple brief trips to the same destination should explain how the activity lead and/or activity participants will fully immerse themselves in another culture despite these disruptions. Applicants who propose a single brief trip (i.e. three weeks) to one destination as part of a multi-destination itinerary (e.g. three weeks in China after two months in Japan) should also provide a rationale for such brief visits.

Competitive proposals will provide sufficient time for meaningful cultural exchange, immersion, and relationship-building. ACC believes that these are enhanced when Organization Grantees provide a significant and uninterrupted period of time (at least two months, preferably) for exploration, dialogue, and exchange with peers. It is also important to consider logistical challenges and/or restrictions related to traveling to multiple countries, territories, or regions to pursue grant activities.

ACC strongly discourages Organization Grantees, activity leads, and activity participants from suspending their participation in grant activities or leaving the travel destination(s) during the execution of grant activities, with the exception of medical and family emergencies. Organization Grantees that have significant and unavoidable scheduling conflicts must submit a change request form seeking ACC&rsquo;s approval at least 60 days before the first date of grant-funded travel.

Visa Requirements

While ACC does not sponsor visas for Organization Grantees, applicants must understand the following:

Before applying for an Organization Grant, applicants must research visa requirements and any other travel permissions relevant to their travel plans.

Applicants must ensure that the activity lead and activity participants will be able to meet all necessary visa and travel permission requirements if they are awarded a grant.

Grant Amount and Budget

ACC may award Organization Grants of up to $50,000 USD. ACC determines grant award amounts based on a review of the applicant&rsquo;s proposed budget, activities, travel duration, and overall application quality. ACC asks applicants to submit a budget that is reasonable and realistic with regards to the plan of activities, travel costs, visa-related expenses, travel health insurance, interpretation services (if necessary), and the cost of living where the activities will take place. Please also note that grant amounts may be adjusted if there are changes to the proposed fellowship.

Eligible Grant Expenses

Applicants should only include eligible expenses in their budget. Eligible expenses include:

Airfare (economy class only)

Local and regional ground transportation

Accommodation

Food

Other daily living expenses

Visa-related fees and expenses, if necessary

Mandatory travel health insurance and other insurance as needed 

ACC requires Organization Grantees to purchase and provide proof of mandatory travel health insurance with the following coverage requirements for all individuals who travel internationally as part of the grant (i.e. activity lead and activity participants): at least $100,000 USD per accident or illness, at least $25,000 USD for repatriation expenses, and at least $50,000 USD for medical evacuation, with a deductible under $500 USD. ACC suggests that you obtain insurance estimates in advance of submitting your budget.

Interpretation services, if necessary

Costs and fees relevant to the research and cultural immersion and exchange objectives

Ineligible Grant Expenses

Examples of ineligible expenses that you cannot include in your budget:

First-class, business class, or other airfare higher than economy class (with exceptions for those with medical-based exemptions)

Production-related expenses, including technical equipment, staffing (e.g. filming and photography crews, post-production, editors, etc.), and publication costs

Capital expenses or equipment purchases

Any expenses to support family or other individuals who are not part of the proposal as the activity lead or activity participants

For additional information about Organization Budgets, including ACC&rsquo;s budget template and upload instructions, please see the "Apply now" section below.

Payment Schedule

ACC will issue a $3,000 USD advance payment to organizations that are awarded a grant after the organization has signed a grant agreement and submitted an “Information Collection Form” with updated information about the grantee and their activities.

ACC will issue the remaining grant amount after Organization Grantees submit further details and travel documentation through an “Arrival Preparation Form” that ACC sends to Organization Grantees about four months prior to the start of their travel.

FAQs

My organization has a residency program that hosts and supports international artists who pursue new work. Can we request a grant to support our residency program? No. ACC does not offer grants to support such residency programs. However, we invite organizations with residency programs to consider other proposals that would advance cultural exchange, learning, and dialogue for the organization, their staff, and/or other communities.

In the past, ACC has funded organizations that send individuals to participate in performances, workshops, festivals, and more. Can I apply to do the same? No. ACC has shifted away from funding travel grants and will no longer support these projects.

I have plans to organize events and programming that are related to the grant activities before or after my trip. Can I request funding for activities that occur outside the proposed travel dates and destination? No, ACC provides financial support only for grant activities executed during the period in which the activity lead and activity participants are in the proposed travel destination(s).

Apply now. Please carefully review the instructions below to learn more about submitting an application for the Organization Grant program. As a reminder, you may submit an application for only one ACC fellowship or grant type per grant cycle.

Deadlines

Applications must be submitted by November 19, 2025, at 9:59 AM Eastern Standard Time (EST).

Letters of recommendation must be uploaded by November 26, 2025, at 9:59 AM EST. Learn more about the letter of recommendation requirements further below.

GoApply

Applications must be submitted through GoApply, ACC&rsquo;s application platform. Previous applicants may log in to their account with their email and password.

Starting on October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT, previous and new GoApply users can click here to log in or create a GoApply account . Once you have logged in or registered with GoApply, you can open the “Opportunities” menu item, and then click on the “apply” button next to “2026 Organization Grant Application”. GoApply registration instructions are available in English , Chinese , and Japanese .

Please note that ACC&rsquo;s GoApply applications will only be available from October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM Eastern Daylight Time to November 19, 2025, at 9:59 AM EST.

Eligibility Quiz

The application begins with an eligibility quiz, which will ask questions assessing your eligibility based on ACC&rsquo;s general grant guidelines and the Organization Grant guidelines. Only applicants whose responses confirm their eligibility for the Organization Grant will be allowed to proceed with the rest of the application.

If you are not sure how to respond to an eligibility quiz question, please contact the relevant ACC representative office (see here ).

Required Application Materials

Applicants must be prepared to provide the application materials listed below. Required items are marked with an asterisk (*).

Contact information for the organization *

Proof of organization&rsquo;s nonprofit status *

Logo for the organization *

Website and/or social media accounts for the organization

Work samples from the organization (see below) *

Organization&rsquo;s annual operating budget range *

Name and contact information for one individual who will submit a letter of recommendation for the organization *

Name and contact information for two individuals who will serve as references for the organization *

Passport/biographical data and contact information for the primary contact and activity lead (if different from the primary contact) *

Biographies and CVs/resumes for the activity lead (or primary contact, if the same) and activity participants *

Names and citizenship/permanent residency status of all activity participants *

Bilingual application responses (as required by region)

Budget (see below) *

Work Samples

Applicants must provide up to three work samples that best exemplify their work. Work sample attachments may include image files (JPEG or PNG) or PDF files containing images, links to videos, audio clips, or other relevant media or materials to support your application. ( See examples of work samples .) Please refer to the work sample guidelines listed below.

Audio/Video-based Samples: Applicants may submit a PDF with URLs for up to three audio or video clips that each contain no more than three minutes of content. Staff and review panelists will review only the first three minutes of audio or video provided in clips that are longer than three minutes.

Image-based Samples: Applicants may submit their image-based work samples in PDF, JPEG, and PNG formats. PDFs may contain no more than two pages of images per work or exhibition sample. Multiple images and captions are allowed on the same page, but they must be from the same work or exhibition sample. You can submit images for up to three works/exhibitions.

Text/Literary Samples: Applicants may submit PDFs containing no more than five pages per work sample (literature, art history, art criticism, etc.).

Multimedia Samples: Applicants may submit a PDF containing a combination of images (no more than two pages), text (no more than five pages), and/or links to video/audio clips (no more than three minutes) for a single work or exhibition.

Recommendation Letter and References

ACC asks you to provide contact information for three separate individuals: one person who will submit a letter of recommendation on behalf of your organization and two references whom ACC can contact if we have any questions about you, your organization, or your proposal.

Conflicts of Interest

The recommender and references should not be ACC trustees, staff, or donors. All applicants will be asked to sign a conflict-of-interest statement attesting that their recommender and references, to the best of their knowledge, are not ACC trustees, staff, or donors.

Letter of Recommendation Deadline

Your recommender must upload their letter of recommendation to GoApply after you have submitted your application. The deadline for the letter of recommendation is November 26, 2025, at 9:59 AM EST . Only after you have submitted your application will your recommender receive an email containing a link and instructions for uploading their letter to GoApply. We recommend that you ask for your recommender&rsquo;s support in advance and that you submit your application early, so that your recommender has enough time to upload their letter. Your application will not be considered complete and will not be reviewed until your letter of recommendation has been uploaded.

Uploading a Budget

Applicants must upload a proposed budget for their Organization Grant using the Excel template provided in the GoApply application&rsquo;s budget section. The template will ask for detailed budget information, including descriptions of proposed expenses, quantities, estimated USD amounts, and links or comments justifying these expenses, as needed. For more information about eligible and ineligible expenses and other budget requirements, please refer to the Grant Amount and Budget section in the Organization Grant guidelines.

Bilingual Applications

In addition to submitting question responses in English, applicants who apply through ACC Hong Kong, ACC Japan, and ACC Taiwan should refer to their respective bilingual application requirements. Please note that the bilingual fillable forms (for completion and upload) and translated eligibility quizzes (for reference) will be made available for download on October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT.

Hong Kong SAR, Macau SAR, and Mainland China (Optional)

In addition to completing the application in English, applicants who are citizens or permanent residents of Hong Kong SAR, Macau SAR, and Mainland China, and are applying through ACC Hong Kong, may also submit an optional copy of their application in Chinese. To do so, please download, complete, and upload to GoApply the bilingual application form provided below. Please note that the application is provided in traditional Chinese, but applicants may provide responses in simplified Chinese, if desired.

Organization Grant Translated Eligibility Quiz (Traditional Chinese) -- Available October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT

Organization Grant Bilingual Application Form (Traditional Chinese) -- Available October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT

Japan (Required)

Applicants who are citizens or permanent residents of Japan and are applying through ACC Japan must submit an additional copy of their application in Japanese and a PDF of their CV/resume in both English and Japanese. Descriptions or captions of work samples must also be made available in both English and Japanese. Applicants should download, complete, and upload to GoApply the bilingual application form provided below.

Organization Grant Translated Eligibility Quiz (Japanese) -- Available October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT

Organization Grant Bilingual Application Form (Japanese) -- Available October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT

Taiwan ROC (Required)

Applicants who are citizens or permanent residents of Taiwan ROC and are applying through ACC Taiwan must submit an additional copy of their application in traditional Chinese and a PDF of their CV/resume in both English and traditional Chinese. Descriptions or captions of work samples must also be made available in both English and Chinese. Applicants should download, complete, and upload to GoApply the bilingual application form provided below.

Organization Grant Translated Eligibility Quiz (Traditional Chinese) -- Available October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT

Organization Grant Bilingual Application Form (Traditional Chinese) -- Available October 1, 2025, at 9:59 AM EDT

General FAQs
ACC has prepared responses to a number of frequently asked questions we have received from applicants over the years.

Read our responses below. How can I apply for an ACC fellowship or grant? Please carefully read the guidelines for the specific program that interests you, as each program has important specific information regarding eligibility, restrictions, and application instructions. After reviewing this information, you must register for an account on GoApply, ACC&rsquo;s application platform, to take an eligibility quiz and begin your application. As a reminder, the 2026 Grant Cycle&rsquo;s call for applications will open on October 1, 2025, and close on November 19, 2025. More information about GoApply can be found in the "Apply now" section of each set of program guidelines.

How does ACC define “cultural exchange?” There is no single way to define cultural exchange. ACC believes meaningful cultural exchange involves person-to-person interactions, dialogue, learning, and sharing between different cultures over a prolonged period of time. Cultural exchange requires curiosity, an open mind, and an appreciation for unexpected experiences. Successful cultural exchange can improve understanding of oneself and the world around them, generate new ideas and ways of doing things, and cultivate community and relationships across borders.

What does ACC expect from grantees at the end of their fellowship? ACC grantees are expected to execute the research and cultural immersion activities included in their proposal and to submit a final report within 30 days of the final day of their grant period. The final report will include a series of questions about the grantees&rsquo; experience, their learnings, challenges faced, and any suggestions they have for ACC to improve its programming.

I am a citizen of two eligible countries. Which ACC representative office will review and answer questions about my application? The application will ask you to select an ACC representative office based on your citizenship or permanent resident status. You should select the ACC representative office of the country, territory, or region where you predominantly reside. Your ACC representative office will receive and review your application. You should also send questions about your application to your representative office (see here ).

I am a citizen of an eligible country, but I currently live in a non-eligible country. May I apply for a grant? ACC will consider proposals from any applicant who meets the criteria of being a citizen or legal permanent resident of an eligible country, territory, or region. If the applicant primarily resides or works outside of Asia and the U.S., they will need to demonstrate how they will advance ACC&rsquo;s cultural exchange objectives.

Can I apply for more than one fellowship/grant type in one cycle? No, you may submit only one application in a given grant cycle.

If ACC awards me a grant, may I change my proposed travel dates? ACC expects that grantees will commit to their proposed travel dates. However, grantees with significant, unavoidable scheduling issues may submit a request to change their travel dates at least 60 days prior to their first day of travel. Please note the following:

ACC retains full discretion when reviewing change requests.

Reductions in travel duration may result in reductions in the grant amount.

Grantees are only allowed two change requests after the grant agreement has been signed.

ACC will not consider date change requests within 60 days of the original travel start date unless the grantee has an urgent medical or family emergency.

Failure to meet the above terms may result in cancellation of the grant. Cancellations require grantees to return any grant funds that they have received.

My question was not answered here. Can I email ACC to request more information? For all questions about program eligibility, please email the appropriate ACC representative office based on your citizenship or permanent resident status, as noted below. If you have a technical question about GoApply (ACC&rsquo;s application platform), please email application@accny.org .

Citizens and Legal Permanent Residents of 
Contact Info: 

Mainland China, Hong Kong SAR, or Macau SAR 
ACC Hong Kong: acc@acc.org.hk 

Japan 
ACC Japan: application@accjpn.org 

Philippines 
ACC Philippines: accphilippines@gmail.com 

Taiwan ROC 
ACC Taiwan: application@acctf.org 

All other eligible countries, territories, and regions (Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Cambodia, East Timor, India, Indonesia, Korea, Laos, Malaysia, Mongolia, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Thailand, United States, and Vietnam) 
ACC&rsquo;s New York Office: application@accny.org 

Contacting ACC About Your Application
For all questions about program eligibility, please email the appropriate ACC representative office based on your citizenship or permanent resident status and where you predominantly reside, as noted below.

Citizens and Legal Permanent Residents of 
Contact Info: 

Mainland China, Hong Kong SAR, or Macau SAR 
ACC Hong Kong: acc@acc.org.hk 

Japan 
ACC Japan: application@accjpn.org 

Philippines 
ACC Philippines: accphilippines@gmail.com 

Taiwan ROC 
ACC Taiwan: application@acctf.org 

All other eligible countries, territories, and regions (Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Cambodia, East Timor, India, Indonesia, Korea, Laos, Malaysia, Mongolia, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Thailand, United States, and Vietnam) 
ACC&rsquo;s New York Office: application@accny.org 

Manage Your Application or Grant
Applicants who have already started or submitted an application can log in to their GoApply account to access their in-progress or completed applications.

Current ACC grantees may also log in to their GoApply account to access forms that require completion or to review previously submitted forms.

If you have difficulty accessing your GoApply account, please email application@accny.org .

Get the latest news from ACC Subscribe
Invalid E-Mail address!

Asian Cultural Council 
8 West 38th Street

Suite 901

New York, NY 10018

Tel: 1 212 843 0403 

E-mail: acc@accny.org 

About ACC
Support Us
Careers
Privacy Policy

Grant Opportunities
Grantee Database
ACC Impact
Alumni News
Alumni Events

Support Us

© Copyright Asian Cultural Council 2026. All Rights Reserved.

Follow Us on Facebook
ACC New York ACC Tokyo ACC Hong Kong ACC Taipei

Follow Us on Instagram
ACC New York ACC Tokyo ACC Hong Kong

Follow Us on YouTube
ACC New York ACC Tokyo

Follow Us on LinkedIn
ACC New York

Subscription Options
Select which newsletters you would like to be subscibed to:
ACC New York ACC Hong Kong ACC Taipei ACC Tokyo
Subscribe

Success
Thank you for subscribing.
Close

Failed
Something went wrong!
Close