标题: HKICC Lee Shau Kee School of Creativity
链接: https://www.mill6chat.org/collaborators/hkicc
日期: Thu, 11 Jun 2026 06:59:56 +0000
摘要: HKICC Lee Shau Kee School of Creativity Planned and operated by the Hong Kong Center for Contemporary Culture, the HKICC Lee Shau Kee School of Creativity was founded in September 2006. It is Hong Kong’s first secondary school under the Direct Subsidy Scheme (DSS) that provides holistic creative education. Since the academic year 2021/22, the school has expanded with a junior school curriculum and recruited Form One students, providing a comprehensive six-year school life. With humanities as the backbone of […] The post HKICC Lee Shau Kee School of Creativity appeared first on CHAT (Centre for Heritage, Arts and Textile) .

---

标题: Sunaina BHALLA
链接: https://www.mill6chat.org/collaborators/sunaina-bhalla
日期: Thu, 11 Jun 2026 03:49:29 +0000
摘要: Sunaina BHALLA Currently based in Singapore, Sunaina Bhalla is a contemporary artist of Indian origin. Her multidisciplinary practice explores memory, identity, migration and the body through textiles, printmaking and installation. Drawing on her experience of living across India, Japan, Singapore, Europe and the Middle East, she investigates how personal and collective histories are shaped, preserved and transformed. Bhalla holds an MFA from Goldsmiths, University of London and LASALLE College of the Arts, and a Diploma in Textile Design from the […] The post Sunaina BHALLA appeared first on CHAT (Centre for Heritage, Arts and Textile) .

---

标题: LEE Mei Yin
链接: https://www.mill6chat.org/collaborators/lee-mei-yin
日期: Thu, 11 Jun 2026 03:18:34 +0000
摘要: LEE Mei Yin Lee Mei Yin has been researching, teaching and promoting Chinese art and culture for more than four decades. Her research interests include the history, art and dress of the ethnic minorities of China, Buddhist art, Dunhuang art, silk and embroidery. A graduate of the Chinese University of Hong Kong, Lee taught at the University of Hong Kong’s School of Professional and Continuing Education from 2000 to 2010. She is currently a specially appointed research fellow at the […] The post LEE Mei Yin appeared first on CHAT (Centre for Heritage, Arts and Textile) .

---

标题: Joel CHUNG
链接: https://www.mill6chat.org/collaborators/joel-chung
日期: Mon, 08 Jun 2026 09:44:28 +0000
摘要: Joel CHUNG Joel Chung is a prominent collector of Hong Kong’s cultural heritage, specialising in children’s culture and material history. In 2016, he founded Hong Kong’s first stationery bank to support children from low-income families. The organisation was formally registered as a charity in 2023. It has collected and redistributed hundreds of thousands of stationery items since its establishment, and actively promotes the importance of ‘stationery education’ in children’s holistic development. Alongside his community work, Chung has published a series […] The post Joel CHUNG appeared first on CHAT (Centre for Heritage, Arts and Textile) .

---

标题: Makiko MORANGE
链接: https://www.mill6chat.org/collaborators/makiko-morange
日期: Mon, 08 Jun 2026 04:31:47 +0000
摘要: Makiko MORANGE Trained in the Sogetsu style of flower arrangement, Makiko Morange practises and teaches floral art worldwide. Guided by the Sogetsu philosophy of ‘anytime, anywhere and anyone’, she actively promotes flower arrangement as a means of self-expression, encouraging a deeper engagement with flowers and their surroundings. The post Makiko MORANGE appeared first on CHAT (Centre for Heritage, Arts and Textile) .

---

标题: Jerry LAU
链接: https://www.mill6chat.org/collaborators/jerry-lau
日期: Mon, 08 Jun 2026 03:17:50 +0000
摘要: Jerry LAU Jerry Lau is a prominent Hong Kong martial artist, coach and nunchaku expert. He is the founder, chairman and chief coach of the Hong Kong Nunchaku Association; founder of the Future HK Nunchaku Art Association; and creator of the eight-level and eight-dan rank system of nunchaku in Hong Kong. He holds a 5th-dan black belt from the China Nunchaku International Federation, is a Guinness World Record holder, and is an advocate for the sport in Hong Kong. Since […] The post Jerry LAU appeared first on CHAT (Centre for Heritage, Arts and Textile) .

---

标题: Slow Art Collective
链接: https://www.mill6chat.org/artists/slow-art-collective
日期: Thu, 04 Jun 2026 04:16:18 +0000
摘要: Slow Art Collective Slow Art Collective is a Melbourne-based collaborative practice that has been creating large-scale, participatory environments since 2009. Currently led by Chaco Kato and Dylan Martorell, the collective focuses on process-driven art that integrates sustainability, DIY culture and community collaboration, transforming public spaces into immersive sites for sensory engagement. Grounded in the ethics of ‘slow art’, they prioritise exchanges of value that are unhurried, rather than fast and transactional. Through shared making, they blur the boundaries between artist […] The post Slow Art Collective appeared first on CHAT (Centre for Heritage, Arts and Textile) .

---

标题: CHAN Wai Lap
链接: https://www.mill6chat.org/artists/chan-wai-lap
日期: Thu, 04 Jun 2026 04:10:27 +0000
摘要: CHAN Wai Lap Based in Hong Kong, Chan Wai Lap’s practice spans painting, drawing, publishing and installation. Particularly known for documenting public swimming pools, Chan draws inspiration from personal experiences, memories and everyday happenings, investigating the power dynamics and interrelationships between public and private, self and others. Chan received his BA in Visual Communication from Birmingham City University. He has been featured in solo exhibitions at venues such as the Hong Kong Museum of Art (2023); Art Central, Hong Kong […] The post CHAN Wai Lap appeared first on CHAT (Centre for Heritage, Arts and Textile) .

---

标题: Agus Nur Amal PM Toh
链接: https://www.mill6chat.org/artists/agus-nur-amal-pm-toh
日期: Wed, 03 Jun 2026 10:22:05 +0000
摘要: Agus Nur Amal PM Toh Agus Nur Amal, also known as PM Toh, was born in 1969 in Aceh, Sumatra, Indonesia. As a storyteller, he uses everyday objects and imaginative theatrical methods to create interactive performances. His work often draws on mythology and real-life challenges such as social issues, natural disasters and climate change. Agus received his diploma and bachelor’s degree from the Jakarta Institute of Arts in 1990 and 2000 respectively, and his theatrical journey began in 1992. Since […] The post Agus Nur Amal PM Toh appeared first on CHAT (Centre for Heritage, Arts and Textile) .

---

标题: HA Chung Kin
链接: https://www.mill6chat.org/collaborators/ha-chung-kin
日期: Thu, 30 Apr 2026 04:02:36 +0000
摘要: HA Chung Kin Master Ha Chung Kin is the head of the long-established papercraft workshop Tin Bo Lau. Apprenticed to ‘King of Lanterns’ Leung Yau Kam, he started out in the 1980s and has been honing paper crafts for over 40 years, earning the title of Hong Kong’s ‘King of Paper Craft’. Ha has set three Guinness World Records, including the world’s largest hanging Chinese lantern – measuring 13 m in height – and a massive installation made from 7,500 […] The post HA Chung Kin appeared first on CHAT (Centre for Heritage, Arts and Textile) .