Home | Berlinale

Jump to the content

Funded by

Press Area
Film Entry
Accreditation
Archive
Contact

DE

Login

Festival

Profile

Accessibility

Sustainability

Sections

Biographies

Awards & Juries

Partners

News & Topics

News

Berlinale Notes

Berlinale Topics

FAQs Dialogue & Safety

Programme

Programme

Ticket Info

Photos & Videos

Photo Boulevard

Star Portraits

Berlinale Live

Videos

Berlinale Trailer

Service

Berlinale Shop

Map

Advertising

European Film Market
Berlinale Co-Production Market
Berlinale Talents
World Cinema Fund

Home

Berlinale 2026

Relive highlights of the festival.

Funded by

Principal Partners

© Prima Materia Pictures LLC and Daluyong Studios, Inc.
© Prima Materia Pictures LLC and Daluyong Studios, Inc.

News | World Cinema Fund

Current Funding Recommendations

At the 43rd jury session of the Berlinale World Cinema Fund , the jury made nine funding recommendations, allocating the current funding to projects from Bangladesh, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Ecuador, Lebanon, Malaysia, Philippines, Senegal, and Turkey. Additionally, three German cinema releases have been supported.

In Memory of Moritz de Hadeln

With the passing of Moritz de Hadeln, the international film community has lost one of its most influential and respected figures. As a festival director, filmmaker, and passionate advocate for cinema, he played a pivotal role in shaping European and international film culture over several decades.

© Peter Domsch / European Film Market 2026
© Peter Domsch / European Film Market 2026

News | European Film Market

South Africa to be Celebrated as EFM &rsquo;s “Country in Focus” at the Berlinale 2027

As one of Africa&rsquo;s most globally integrated and diversified economies, South Africa is home to a dynamic and internationally connected film industry that combines creative excellence, strong production capabilities and growing global market relevance.

Archive | Awards

All Awards of the 76th Berlin International Film Festival

Archive

Berlinale On Demand

Missed a Gala, a Red Carpet or a Press Conference? All videos of the 76th Berlinale on demand.

© Jens Koch
© Jens Koch

Archive

Star Portraits 2026

During the festival the large-format Berlinale Star Portraits adorn the walls of the Berlinale Palast. There they are signed by the stars before their gala premieres.

Archive

Festival Photos 2026

© Per Jacob Blut / Berlinale 2026
© Per Jacob Blut / Berlinale 2026

News

Record Audience Admissions and Growth in Industry Attendance / Festival Dates for 2027

This year's festivals public and industry admissions surpass even last year&rsquo;s record-breaking attendance. The 77th Berlin International Film Festival will take place from February 10–21, 2027.

© EFM / Cecelia Gaeta
© EFM / Cecelia Gaeta

News | European Film Market

Increase in Participants and Growth of Programme

With a notable five percent increase in participants, the European Film Market 2026 once again secured its position as a driving force for the global film industry at the beginning of the year.

Funded by

Principal Partners

Co-Partners

Contact

Anti-Discrimination

Legal Notice

Privacy Policy

Cookie Settings

Cookie Information

Newsletter

B2B

Jobs

Dates

Accessibility Statement