Open call: residency at home & an exhibition in Stockholm - Finlandsinstitutet

Flytta dig till innehållet

×

Sök:

Sök

På svenska

Suomeksi

Om institutet

Bibliotek

Program

Språkkurser

Kontakt

Open call: residency at home & an exhibition in Stockholm

Categories

Nyheter

The Finnish Institute in Stockholm together with the Centre for Photography and the Association of Photographic Artists, Finland, announces an open call for a residency at home and an exhibition at the Finnish Institute in Stockholm in the fall of 2021. The international residency in the time of a pandemic is open for Swedish and Finnish artists that are members of The Centre for Photography in Sweden or the Association of Photographic Artists in Finland.

Each application should describe a collaborative exhibition and residency that is possible to do from home or under safe conditions due to the ongoing pandemic with one Swedish artist and one Finnish. The project should describe a concept for both the residency and the exhibition.

The project aims to enhance collaboration between two countries, two artists and three organizations and develop new ways of collaborating during extraordinary times.

The residency can take place in the home environment of the artists during the spring or summer of 2021. Each artist gets a scholarship of SEK 10,000 / 1000 EUR as a temporary financial support to deepen and develop the artistic practice.

11/11/2021 – 22/12/2021 Exhibition at the Art Gallery at the Finnish Institute in Stockholm

The art gallery at the Finnish Institute in Stockholm is located in central Stockholm. The gallery hosts contemporary Finnish art and design exhibitions in Swedish context, and it has a special position in between the fields of contemporary art in Finland and Sweden. Through their exhibition program the Finnish Institute in Stockholm contributes to the strengthening of Nordic cooperation and encourages Finnish artists to create contacts with professionals in Sweden. The gallery’s exhibition program is part of the Finnish Institute’s multidisciplinary approach to cultural and societal issues.

The area of the exhibition space is approximately 70 square meters, and the height is 3,5 meters. For more information visit the gallery´s Instagram-page: @finlandsinstitutets_galleri

The exhibition compensation is 8000 SEK to be divided between the two artists. On top of that, the Finnish Institute in Stockholm covers art transport and travels for the artists from Finland or Sweden and back. Accommodation during the installation of the exhibition and opening is also covered.

More information about the three organizers.

www.centrumforfotografi.se
www.hippolyte.fi
www.finlandsinstitutet.se

You apply by submitting the information below with attachments.
Last day to apply is 15 of February 2021. The application should be in English.

In your application, you need to enter the information below. Max 1 A4 page with the project description, CV and a portfolio from each artist to application@centrumforfotografi.se

Label the application with Residency at home & Exhibition in Stockholm.

Name of both artists
Project title
What organisation are you members of?
Contact info
E-mail
Phone number
Home address
Year of birth
Short motivation of why you’re applying for Residency at home & Exhibition in Stockholm
Project description

Photograph: Photograph taken from the exhibition “YYY4” by visual artists Katri Naukkarinen, Hallgerður Hallgrímsdóttir and Linn Phyllis Seeger. The exhibition was on display in the Finnish Institute´s gallery in the Fall 2018. Katri Naukkarinen was the resident artist in the Nordic Guest Studio in November 2018. The exhibition was arranged during, and in connection with the residency. The residency and the exhibition was a collaboration between the Finnish Institute in Stockholm, the Photographic Artists’ Association in Finland and CFF – the Centre for Photography.

Finlandsinstitutet

info@finlandsinstitutet.se

(besök enligt överenskommelse)

Öppettider biblioteket och galleriet :

Tis-ons kl. 11–18

Fre-lör kl. 11–15

Besöksadress

Snickarbacken 2-4,

111 39 Stockholm

Postadress

Box 1355, 111 83 Stockholm

Prenumerera på vårt nyhetsbrev

Följ oss på