Application procedures | youkobo artspace

日本語

English

Message

Outline

News

Youkobo Mandala

50 years of Youkobo

Youkobo Archives

Residence Program

List of Artists

Studio Program

Exhibition & Event

Archives

Related Activities

AIR Exchange Program

Y-AIR

AIR Network

Community Art

Research

youkobo plus

Publication

Annual

Report

Movie

Access

Contact

Networks

Facebook

Search

Applications

Due to Covid-19, we are currently not accepting new applications for residency and the exhibition program for artists, thank you for your understanding.

Youkobo Art Space is a privately managed and operated art institution. The cost of using the facilities, travel and living expenses, and materials expenses are solely the responsibility of the artist. Youkobo cannot offer any form of financial support.

We accept applications for the Artists-in-Residence (AIR) program twice a year. The two annual application deadlines are: June 30 (results announced in August) and December 31 (results announced in February). All artists accepted onto the residence program will be expected to confirm the dates of their residency, sign a contract, and pay a deposit of 40,000 yen within one month of their selection.

1. Applications to the Artist-in-Residence Program

There are no preconditions for acceptance in terms of field of artistic activity, age, nationality, etc.

Residencies will be calculated in one-month periods and must be a minimum of one month, up to a maximum of 12 months. It is recommended that artists joining our program hold open studios or exhibition at the conclusion of their residency with us.

Applications are accepted by email. Applications should contain the following: official application form, a proposal outlining your activities during the residency, CV, and a portfolio of artistic activities. The application form can be downloaded here:

In principle, the following spaces are available for use during the residency only in the designated combinations. All spaces are well suited to long-term residencies. Residence 3 is suited to researchers or curators who don’t require a studio.

Applicants wishing to apply as a pair or group, or who wish to use the facilities in different combinations to those assigned should contact Youkobo beforehand. Please note that there will be an additional charge for those applying as a pair or group.

Plan
Name of space
Cost/month
Description

AIR-1
Residence 1
160,000
Located on the ground floor. Japanese-style living quarters and studio.

Studio 1

AIR-2
Residence 2
140,000
Located on the first floor. Single bedroom living quarters and spacious studio.

Studio 2

AIR-3
Residence 3
170,000
Living quarters located on the second floor, with studio located on the ground floor of the adjacent building.

Studio 3

Residence-3 only
Residence 3
130,000
The living quarters of AIR3 only.

* Note: In addition to the above costs, artists are expected to pay 30,000 yen/month to cover the cost of utilities (electricity, gas, water, etc.). Artists using AIR 1 must additionally pay the cost of fuel for the stove in Studio 1 if required in the winter season.

How to Apply

Download Application Form

Please email completed application forms and supporting materials to this address: info@youkobo.co.jp