Danish Arts Foundation's International Visual Arts Funding Programmes

Funding Funding programmes
What you need to know before applying
Help for the Grant portal
When awarded a grant
Crediting

About us
Art forms Architecture
Crafts and design
Film
Literature
Music
Performing arts
Visual arts

Press
Contact

Apply now

International Visual Arts Funding Programmes

Danish artists invited to exhibit abroad

If a Danish contemporary artist is invited to exhibit abroad the artist can apply for production costs related to new works, and artist production fee. Additionally either the foreign exhibition venue or the Danish artist can apply for exhibition costs, exhibition fee for the artist, transport and insurance of works, and the artists’ travel and accommodation connected to the installation and opening. The artist may also apply for presentation costs, however only limited funds are awarded for publications.
Four annual deadlines, answer after ca. 8 weeks.
Programme: Værkproduktion og udstillinger
Guidelines for applying and criteria for funding are described (in Danish) in detail online.
Foreign exhibition venues exhibiting Danish artists

The foreign venue can apply for everything related to the exhibition, only not for production of the artwork/s. If foreign exhibition venue wishes to exhibit works by a Danish contemporary artist, the venue can apply for costs for exhibition, exhibition fee for the artist, transport and insurance of works, and the artists’ travel and accommodation connected to the installation and opening. The venue may also apply for presentation costs, however only limited funds are awarded for publications. All of the above presupposes that the Danish artist/s does not apply for the same costs.

All of the above presupposes that the Danish artist/s does not apply for the same costs.
Four annual deadlines, answer after ca. 8 weeks.
Programme: Exhibition of Danish Art Abroad
Guidelines for applying and criteria for funding are described in detail online.
Foreign Artists invited to exhibit in Denmark

Foreign artists who are invited to exhibit in Denmark, can apply for work production, and for travel and accommodation related to installation and exhibition opening.
If the foreign artist is to produce a site-specific work at the Danish exhibition venue, the venue may apply for a production fee for the foreign artist and for the foreign artists’ accommodation in Denmark during production of the site-specific work.
Four annual deadlines, answer after ca. 8 weeks.
Programme: Production and Exhibition
Guidelines for applying and criteria for funding are described (in Danish) in detail online.
Foreign curators who wish to meet Danish artists

Foreign curators, who wish to carry out curatorial research among Danish contemporary artists and institutions, may apply for funding for travel and accommodation.
Four annual deadlines, answer after ca. 8 weeks.
Programme: The International Research Programme
Guidelines for applying and criteria for funding are described in detail online.
Danish artists invited to artists' residencies abroad

Danish artists can apply for residency programme expenses, stipend, travel expenses, and housing expenses, if they are accepted at international artist residencies.
Four annual deadlines, answer after ca. 8 weeks.
Programme: Ophold på udenlandske residencies
Guidelines for applying and criteria for funding are described in (in Danish) detail online.
Residency opportunities in Denmark for foreign artists

Please note, that the Danish Arts Foundation is only involved in the residencies below in terms of funding. This means that all decisions for awarding of a residency in any of these places are made exclusively by the individual venues. All of the residencies operate with regular open calls. Please stay informed via their webpages and direct any questions directly to them.

Danish Art Workshops (DAW)

DAW in Copenhagen. Web: svfk.dk

Art Hub Copenhagen

Art Hub Residency. Web: Art Hub Residency

World Wide Air (WWA)

World Wide Air (WWA) at the Factory for Art and Design in Copenhagen. Web: ffkd.dk

Malt air

Located in Ebeltoft, Jutland. Web: maltair.dk

Riddergade Air

Located in Viborg, Jutland. Web: viborgkunsthal.viborg.dk

F.eks. Air

Located in Aalborg, Jutland. Web: f.eks. AIR

Læsø Artist in Residence

Located in the island of Læsø. Web: Læsø AiR

Sound Art Lab

Located in Struer, Mid-Jutland. Web: Sound Art Lab

Other relevant information on the Danish contemporary art scene
IDOART – exhibition calendar / ongoing shows/ installation images / interviews etc.
ARTmatter – exhibition calendar / ongoing shows/ installation images / interviews etc.
Kunstkritikk - Nordic Art Review - reviews and interviews
Art institutions around Copenhagen
What's on Copenhagen Art Scene
Contact

Contact the Danish Arts Foundation’s office for Visual Arts via kunst@slks.dk or + 45 33 95 42 00

CONTACT

Danish Arts Foundation

Hammerichsgade 14

DK - 1611 Copenhagen V

+ 45 33 95 42 00

post@slks.dk 

Press

Press contacts and info

FOR APPLICANTS

Funding programmes

When awarded a grant

Crediting

FOLLOW US

Instagram

LinkedIn

Facebook

Cookie policy / EAN, CVR and billing 

More

Search

Designed & Developed by Spawoz Technologies