Arts grants 

Skip to content 

Our sites: 

Active Merri-bek 

Conversations Merri-bek 

Love Merri-bek, Buy Local 

Zero Carbon Merri-bek 

Search Merri-bek 

MENU 

CLOSE 

Living in Merri-bek

Rates

Pay your rates
Understand your rates and waste charge
Property valuations
Pensioner rebates
Change your details
Late rates payments
Waste and recycling

Bins and collection services
A to Z guide to waste and recycling
Reducing waste
Recycling stations
Waste and recycling locations
Clean streets and neighbourhoods
Animals and pets

Pet registration
Pet ownership
Pet desexing
Problems with pets and wild animals
Lost and found pets
Keeping multiple pets
Animal management fines
Dog parks and amenities
Community services

Children and families
Youth
Child Safety and Wellbeing
Older people
People with a disability
Diversity
Public health and wellbeing
Get involved
Glenroy Community Hub
Environment

Trees
Climate change
Water
Gardening and food production
Weed control
Nature
Parking and roads

Parking permits and fines
Roads, footpaths, drains and lighting
Nature strips
Exploring Merri-bek

Events

What's on
Venues
Festivals and major events
Submit an event listing
Planning an event
Sponsorship of Festivals and Events
Play streets and street parties
Arts Merri-bek

About Arts Merri-bek
What's on from Arts Merri-bek
Festivals and major events
Counihan Gallery
Artists programs and supports
Public art and collections
Follow Arts Merri-bek
Libraries

Library services
Library activities and events
Library catalogue
Borrow
Children and young people
Learn
Library spaces
Join the library
Transport

Public transport
Riding a bike and walking
Driving in Merri-bek
Parks and gardens

Park amenities and equipment
Find a park
Merri-bek Nature Explorer Passport
Sports and leisure
About the City of Merri-bek
In my area
Love Merri-bek, Buy Local
Building and business

Planning and building

Planning
Building
Strategic planning
Planning, building and environmental health fines
Business

Why Merri-bek for business?
Starting or taking over a business
Business permits
Business support and programs
Find a local business
Contact Economic Development for business support
Coworking and maker spaces
Make your business accessible
Projects

Conversations Merri-bek
Building and park projects
Current projects
Completed projects
Transport projects
Environment projects
Energy projects
My Council

About Council

Councillors
CEO and executive team
Renaming Merri-bek
Sister cities and friendship cities
Our sustainability story
Council budget
Advisory committees
Council Plan and Community Vision
Governance rules
Council and committee meetings

Council meetings
Planning and Related Matters meetings
Advisory Committees
External committees
Livestreaming
Engage

Conversations Merri-bek
Petitions
Committees
Social media user guidelines
Careers at Merri-bek

Current vacancies
Applying for a job
Why work at Merri-bek?
Work experience
First Peoples Careers
Diversity and inclusion at Merri-bek
News and publications

News
Annual Reports
Aged and community support Newsletter
Merri-bek Community News
My Merri-bek e-newsletter
Our Candid Community Podcast
Strategies, policies and collected data

Policies and strategies
Collected data
Community infrastructure planning
Online privacy policy
Public Interest Disclosures
Tenders
Grants and awards

Arts grants
Community Grants Program
Merri-bek Community Awards
Local laws and legislation

Merri-bek local laws
Local law and animal fines
Local law permits
Documents for public review
Freedom of information
Contact

Contact us
Report an issue
Give our staff a compliment
Complaints
Information in your language
Emergency management

Storms and flooding preparedness
Municipal Emergency Management Plan
Emergency numbers
Preparing for Emergencies: Before, During and After
Extreme heat and heat health
Council advocacy

Advocacy Priorities
Submissions on key issues
Advocacy Partnerships
Council service finder

Our sites:

Active Merri-bek 

Conversations Merri-bek 

Love Merri-bek, Buy Local 

Zero Carbon Merri-bek 

Arts grants

Home 

My Council 

Grants and awards 

Arts grants

On this page:

Merri- bek Arts Projects Grant 2027

Merri-bek City Council is proud to support a thriving arts community.

The Arts Projects Grant enables artists, groups and organisations to develop and deliver innovative projects that benefit the wider Merri-bek community and strengthen the municipality&rsquo;s reputation as a leading centre for the arts.  

Arts projects can include the development or presentation of creative outcomes across all artforms.

Grant Objectives

Sustainable Practice   
To empower local artists, groups and organisations to thrive and sustain their creative practice. 

Impact & Cultural Participation   
To support and encourage artist-led creative projects that foster cultural enrichment and participation in Merri-bek.  

Artistic Merit 
To support local artists, groups and organisations to explore new ideas and bring bold, innovative projects to life. 

Grant Categories

There are two grant categories:

Individual Artists (up to $6,000)

Arts Organisations (up to $12,000)

You can only apply under one category.

Applying for an Arts Projects Grant

Open: Wednesday 5 August, 10:00am

Close: Wednesday 2 September, 11.59pm

Please read the Merri-bek Arts Projects Grant Guidelines (PDF 847Kb)

You need to submit your application via the online portal

Apply via Smarty Grants.

Application Support

You can contact the Arts Development Officer to discuss your project and grant application:

Email: artsgrants@merri-bek.vic.gov.au
Phone: 03 9240 2486

You can also book a 30-minute meeting with the Arts Development Officer to receive support with your application. These meetings are conducted via Microsoft Teams.

Make a booking for an online meeting

Information Session

An online information session will be held on Wednesday 12 August 2026 , 6.00pm .

Book a spot in the online information session

Grant Writing Workshop

A grant writing workshop to support your application will be held on Thursday 20 August 6.00pm.

Book a spot in the grant writing workshop

Helpful templates and documents

Example budget template (XLSX 20Kb)

Child Safe Standards template (DOCX 24Kb)

Merri-bek Arts Projects Grant: Frequently Asked Questions

Is the Merri-bek Arts Projects Grant only for Merri-bek residents? 

I ndividual artists must live in Merri- bek . A rts organisations must be based in Merri- bek . Groups or collectives can apply if at least one member is based in Merri- bek . You must supply a Merri- bek -based residential or business address in your application.

Can I get a Merri-bek Arts Projects Grant for an activity outside of Merri-bek? 

No. The grant can only fund activities that take place in the Merri- bek Local Government Area .

I want to apply for an individual artist grant; do I need to be auspiced? 

No. Individual artists do not need to be auspiced to receive a Merri- bek Arts Projects Grant.

I want to apply for a grant for an organisation; am I eligible? 

To be eligible, o rganisations must be not-for-profit incorporated compan ies or association s, or First Peoples business es and/or organisation s , whose primary output is in the arts. Informal groups or collectives can apply through an auspice organisation .

I am a for-profit arts organisation; can I apply? 

For-profit arts organisations are not eligible to apply, unless they are First Peoples - owned.

Do applicants need an ABN? 

Yes. Individual artists mus t be professional creative practitioners with an ABN. Organisations must have an ABN or apply through an incorporated auspice organisation that has an ABN.

Do applicants need Public Liability Insurance? 

If your application is successful, you will need to obtain Public Liability Insurance. We recommend including a quote or other evidence that you have sought insurance advice with your application.

What does it mean to be incorporated?    

Incorporation gives your group its own legal identity , separate from its members. For more information on incorporation, refer to the following helpful guide: Consumer Affairs Victoria&rsquo;s guide for clubs and community groups: Should your club incorporate?   

What is auspicing? 

An auspice organisation takes legal and financial responsibility for the grant on behalf of you or your group. They will sign your grant agreement, receive and distribute funds under the grant agreement, ensure activities or events are completed, and submit accountability and evaluation reports with you and on your behalf. Your group or organisation will still be known as the grant recipient.

Important information on auspice organisations:   

The auspice organisation you choose must be incorporated and have an ABN.   

The auspice organisation accepts legal and financial responsibility for the grant and will need to meet all eligibility criteria and provide Public Liability Insurance coverage for the project(s).  

Grant money will be paid to the auspice organisation, not the applicant.   

Most auspice organisations will charge a percentage of the grant for this service.   

Applicants applying through an auspice organisation need to provide the organisation&rsquo;s contact details, ABN, most recent financial report, and evidence of the auspice agreement.    

You may apply through an auspice organisation if your group does not wish to purchase Public Liability Insurance. In some cases, your project may be covered by a venue&rsquo;s Public Liability Insurance if the entire activity takes place at that venue.

Who could auspice my application? 

You may be able to approach a larger organisation to auspice your grant application.

Auspicious Arts

Local neighbourhood houses: Merri-Bek Neighbourhood Houses

An incorporated community organisation you have worked or partnered with.   

A peak body or governing association for your field (e.g. Arts Access Victoria )

Do I need other sources of income for my project? 

Yes. Your project budget must show other income sources , such as in-kind support, personal contributions, estimate d sales income, or other grants , and demonstrate why you need th is grant.

What is in-kind support? 

In-kind support is non-cash support that helps cover project costs , such as donated catering or equipment. Volunteer hours can be included and should be calculated at $25 per hour.

Can I apply for more than one grant from Merri-bek Council? 

A specific project can only receive one Merri- bek Council grant. However, arts organisations running different projects may apply for different grants for separate activities. For example, an arts studio may receive a Merri- bek Arts Projects Grant to produce a catalogue documenting their resident artists and a Merri- bek City Council Community Grant to undertake renovations.

Can I apply for other arts grants as well as the Merri-bek Arts Projects Grant? 

Yes. You can apply for non-Council arts grants for the same project, such as grants from Creative Victoria, Creative Australia, or other funding bodies.

In your Merri-bek Arts Projects Grant application, your budget must show why you need this grant. If you are waiting to hear about other grant applications, you must also show that your project can still go ahead if those applications are unsuccessful.

Can I get help with my online grant application? 

Yes. The Arts Development Officer can discuss your grant proposal and application , as t hey are not part of the selection process. Please see the Application Support section above.

Is there an alternative submission format? 

We can accept video applications if you prefer to speak about your proposal, show a PowerPoint presentation or video, or use Auslan or a language interpreter to communicate your proposal. Council can also pay for an Auslan or language interpreter to support you with submitting your application.

The SmartyGrants application form includes a section where you can upload a 5 to 10 minute video to answer the four application questions. You can also add videos to the support material URL that you provide in the grant application.

However, questions about your contact details, tax status, legal status, and project budget must still be answered in writing.

If you have language, technical or access barriers to completing the online form, please contact the Arts Development Officer by emailing artsgrants@merri-bek.vic.gov.au or by phone on 03 9240 2486.

What support material do I need to provide? 

You need to provide a website or social media link that documents your work. This can include images, showreels, sound clips, written material, published work, or an online CV. If you have Instagram, then you can include a Linktree in your profile bio.

We suggest you provide up to three (3) support letters for your proposal. They can be from other artists and collaborators, or from organisations or venues that have presented your work or are linked to your proposal. You can also attach the following materials in the section called &lsquo;Additional Support Material&rsquo;:

Images and biography statements of 50 to 100 words for all artists involved in the project

Artist CV, listing your previous creative work

Digital portfolio (as a PDF, keeping the file size manageable)

Detailed budget explaining the project costs in full (make sure this is balanced and matches the budget question in SmartyGrants)

Child Safe Policy or Statement of Commitment to Child Safety (if your project involves children)

What are the Child Safe Standards? 

If your project or program will involve children as participants or audience members, you must show that you comply with the Child Safe Standards by uploading your organisation&rsquo;s Child Safe Policy or Statement of Commitment to Child Safety. Victorian organisations that provide services or facilities for children — meaning anyone under 18 years old — are required by law to comply with the Child Safe Standards to protect children from harm. A Child Safe Standards template for artists and organisations can be accessed here.

For further information, refer to the Child Safe Standards.

How are successful recipients chosen? 

Council is committed to an equitable and transparent assessment process:

The Arts Development Officer will assess each application for eligibility. This Officer will be the main contact for questions and assistance while applications are open. Eligible applications will be submitted to a decision-making panel. This Officer will not be on the decision-making panel.

2. A panel of at least two (2) Officers from across Council and one (1) external representative will assess the eligible applications against the assessment criteria outlined below. The panel will be chaired by the Unit Manager Arts and Culture. All applications from First Peoples will be assessed by a First Peoples assessor.

A report from the panel with funding recommendations will be provided to the Director Community for endorsement.

When will I know if my grant application is successful? 

We aim to notify all applicants of the outcome by December 2026. Applicants will be notified by email.

For more information you can contact our Arts Development Officer by email at artsgrants@merri-bek.vic.gov.au or phone on 03 9240 2486.

Please subscribe to the Arts Merri-bek newsletter on our About Us Page

Explore this section

Explore this section

My Council 

About Council
Councillors
Mayor and Councillors
Councillor conduct
Council elections
CEO and executive team
Renaming Merri-bek
Sister cities and friendship cities
Our sustainability story
Council budget
Advisory committees
Council Plan and Community Vision
Governance rules
Council and committee meetings
Council meetings
Council meeting dates, locations and questions
Next Council meeting agenda
Council meeting minutes and past agendas
Planning and Related Matters meetings
Planning and Related Matters meetings, dates and locations
Next Planning and Related Matters meeting agenda
Planning and Related Matters meeting minutes and past agendas
Advisory Committees
Audit and Risk Committee
Children's Reference Group
Environmental Sustainability and Climate Resilience Advisory Committee
Friends of Aileu Community Committee
Gender Equality Reference Group
Health, Wellbeing and Social Inclusion Advisory Committee
LGBTIQA+ Reference Group
Liveability Advisory Committee
Merri-bek Arts Advisory Committee
Older Persons Reference Group
Past Advisory Committees and Reference Groups
Strategic Transport Reference Group
External committees
Livestreaming
Engage
Conversations Merri-bek
Petitions
Committees
Social media user guidelines
Careers at Merri-bek
Current vacancies
Applying for a job
Why work at Merri-bek?
Work experience
First Peoples Careers
Diversity and inclusion at Merri-bek
News and publications
News
Councils join to launch toolkit to create happier, healthier Open Streets around schools
Merri-bek appoints new Director City Infrastructure
Homelessness Action Now: Everyone deserves a safe place to call home
Fawkner Community Ramadan Event Program EOI
Council services continue through industrial action
Grants to help your community thrive
Merri-bek City Council adopts 2026–2030 budget
Young artist transforms Oxygen Youth Space
Council to implement community feedback in transition to fortnightly waste collection
Parking Fines Refund Scheme
Merri-bek Community Awards 2026 now open
Council battery to support solar access for low-income households
Community engagement on future rubbish collections closing soon
Revitalising Multicultural Business Precincts in Merri-bek
Melbourne Design Week- Brunswick Design District Open Studios
General Local Law review
Proposed realignment - Fawkner-Coburg North suburb boundary
Help shape how we share information and work with our community
Merri-bek City Council is pleased to announce the appointment of a new CEO
Merri-bek City Council elects new Deputy Mayor
Find the perfect space for your next gathering
Proposed sale of Council-owned land at the rear of 436-442 Sydney Road, Coburg
Winning design announced for Coburg’s new $60 million library and piazza
Public apology to artists – Coburg Council Chambers artwork damage
New partnership for the management of Council's Aquatic and Leisure Services
Expressions of interest are now open for the 2026 Democracy Lab
New design guide supports sustainable, high-quality townhouse development in Merri-bek
Merri-bek City Council elects Mayor and Deputy Mayor for 2025-26
Mayoral Election meeting
Merri-bek City Council adopts new animal management plan and cat curfew
Merri-bek’s commitment to net zero
Coburg is here: Merri-bek City Council releases central Coburg concept for community feedback
Announcing our 2025 Merri-bek Community Award winners
Melbourne Water - Stormwater Map
Keeping Our Community Safe: The Role of Environmental Health Officers
Brunswick and Coburg Activity Centres
Merri-bek says no to ageism and yes to celebrating age with Bolder
Merri-bek City Council farewells CEO Cathy Henderson
Help shape how we manage pets in Merri-bek
Merri-bek Customer Service Centres are now Communication Access Accredited
Public notice - proposed sale of land of 498-514 Bell Street, Pascoe Vale South.
Public Notice: Council wants land developers to better contribute to our changing public open space network
Public notice - Proposed sale of land of 10 Murrell Street, Glenroy
Help shape a new park in Coburg
Waste truck incident leads to collection delays
Expressions of Interest are now open for our Merri-bek Connectors program
Help shape the future of our libraries
Our submission on the State Government’s Activity Centres Program
2025 Merri-bek Community Awards
Keeping our roads in good repair
Council approves 2025–29 budget
Council to launch Parking Fines Refund Scheme
All Merri-bek libraries closed 23 June 2025
Council's 2025 Community Satisfaction Survey
Public notice: Proposed General (amendment) Local Law 2025
Volunteer Week: meet Simone, life-changing, local volunteer
State Government Activity Centres consultation
Federal Election 2025 Funding Announcements on the Upfield Train Line
Community celebrates the new Moonee Ponds Creek
Fair access for women, girls and gender diverse people accessing sports and recreation
Have you had your measles vaccination?
Statement from Merri-bek City Council on state government Train and Tram Zone Activity Centres
Council’s 2023-24 annual report highlights major investment in community facilities for future generations
International Women’s Day at Merri-bek City Council
Wurundjeri seasons park projection
Council wants diverse applicants for school-crossing supervisors
Changes to flags at Coburg Town Hall
Annual Community Grants open for summer
Handprint totems complete Foletta Park upgrades
Fawkner Leisure Centre re-opening following $36.8 million redevelopment
Merri-bek City Council elects Mayor for 2024-25
Merri-bek City Council 2024 election results
Less waste sent to landfill with 4-bin service
Temporary changes to our social media and communications during election period
Ride & Stride families leading Open Streets
Council statement
Launch of a campaign to improve transport services: Connect Melbourne’s North: It’s time to transform our transport.
Love Sydney Road
Expressions of interest to apply for Merri-bek Community Connectors is now open
Cyber Security Incident Involving Oracle CMS
Merri-bek’s RenuWall mural program showcases the talents of three local artists
Council approves 2024–28 budget, investing in community facilities and core services
New names endorsed at Council meeting
Former Counihan Gallery curator honoured in naming of new Brunswick park
Council resolution to investigate the possibility of differential rates
Ficus tree pruning
A new hard waste collection is coming
We’re putting your food and garden waste to good use!
Spam email alert, council systems remain secure
Ballerrt Mooroop project wins 2024 Maggolee Award
Help shape Merri-bek's age-friendly future
Lending a helping hand
Urban provocateurs share their thoughts on the future of Coburg at this year’s Melbourne Design Week
Data Breach Incident Involving Oracle CMS
Community Satisfaction Survey 2024
Congratulations to our School Crossing superstars!
Vote now for your favourite school crossing supervisor
Moomba Park Wetland is now officially open
Cathy Henderson reappointed as Merri-bek City Council CEO
Merri-bek calls for accessible tram stops and protected bike lanes on Sydney Road now after reports Brunswick Level Crossing Removal delayed
Ballerrt Mooroop Day 2025
Ballerrt Mooroop Day 2024
Be a good dog owner
Public notice: Proposed discontinuance and sale of road at rear of 45 and 47 Clarence Street, Brunswick East
State Gov must act on accessible tram stops, protected bike lanes and lower speeds to save lives
The Extraordinary Women of Glenroy exhibition
Expressions of interest to lease building at James Martin Reserve
Expressions of interest to sublease former Coburg Train Station now open
Book a flu vaccine
Flags to fly at Half Mast
Big ticket items, community ideas and everyday services delivered in this year’s Proposed 4-year Budget
Management of asbestos reported in Merri-bek – Update
Hosken Reserve asbestos remediation works
New program supporting parents and caregivers
A new Positive Ageing Help Desk at Coburg and Glenroy
Expressions of interest for Glenroy café now open
Public Notice: Vote to name our new park
Council makes further decisions about Procurement Policy, the Community Flag Schedule, and its position on the war in Gaza
Public Notice: Frith Street naming poll has been extended
Public Notice: the naming poll has been extended
Recent park openings and upgrades
How to stay safe and cool in hot weather
Who is the top dog (and cat) in Merri-bek?
Council ward structure set to change
Home Library Service is a wonderful service for those who need it the most
People experiencing homelessness set to receive support through new service in Merri-bek
Distribution of free rapid antigen tests to end
Tips for a low waste festive season
Federal Government gives Council green light to continue care programs for our older community until at least 2027
Service changes over the holidays
Works underway to deliver a new park for Pascoe Vale South
Merri-bek continues connection with Sport4All with announcement of new Inclusion Coach position
Local roads in Brunswick shift to 40 km/h limit in Merri-bek City Council moves to make streets safer
Cr Adam Pulford promises to serve Merri-bek’s diverse and vibrant community as newly elected Mayor
Council Meeting decision on flying the Palestinian Flag
An update on flags at Merri-bek City Council
Outcome from November 8 Council meeting—motion on the War in Gaza
Victoria’s Container Deposit Scheme locations now operational in Merri-bek
Have your say on our Draft Parking Management Policy
Council Resolutions on Bike Lanes - Update – 20 October 2023
Public Notice: Suggest a name for a new park at 41-43 Service Street, Coburg
Council Statement
Kent Road Separated Bike Lane updates
Merri-bek City Council electoral structure review
Pascoe Vale South mural launch
Merri-bek City Council secures grant to explore potential Neighbourhood Battery sites in renewable power push
This Girl Can - 2023
Victorian Seniors Festival is returning in October
Public Notice on intention to sell- 2 Spry Street, Coburg North
Public notice: Suggest a name for a new park at 14 Frith Street, Brunswick
Follow the trail to discover leisure activities in Merri-bek
Public notice: Suggest a name for a new park at 41-43 Service Street, Coburg
State Government’s Housing Statement offers boost to Public Housing but falls short on what is needed
Council says YES to truth, treaty and a voice
Female friendly facilities opened at Charles Mutton Reserve
Council land in Coburg offered to deliver more affordable housing in Melbourne
Win for Merri-bek residents as court orders Montfort Park be given back to community
Learn about our biggest Capital Works Program ever!
Moving Around Merri-bek Discussion Paper launches for community feedback
Public Notice: Proposed sale of Unit 1,6 Sutherland Street, Coburg
4-bin service rolls out in Merri-bek
Merri-bek City Council is a Nuclear-Free Zone
Learn about our 2023-27 Council Budget
Ballerrt Mooroop Day celebrated by Merri-bek community
Start your career in Home Support by completing a Traineeship
More power to Merri-bek thanks to $500,000 community battery funding
Delivering food and garden organics bins to units, townhouses and apartments
Public Notice: Sale of former Glenroy Library at 737 Pascoe Vale Road, Glenroy
Go electric! Councils spark interest in a switch to all-electric homes
Are you still using your old 120 litre mixed recycling bin?
Merri-bek Festivals Season - That’s a Wrap!
Council refuses telecommunication lease at ATC Cook Reserve
Purple glass recycling bins now making their way through Merri-bek
Dunstan Reserve North – Sport Field Lighting Upgrade
Update on rollout of new 4 bin system
Council’s Proposed Budget 2023-27 delivers on roads and footpaths, major capital works and parks and open spaces for our community
Fawkner Leisure Centre closing its doors
Statement of support for trans and gender diverse people in sport
Ramadan Calendar 2024
Ramadan Calendar 2023
Registering your pet is good for you and your community
Accessible upgrades to John Pascoe Fawkner Reserve pavilion
Follow the trails to discover music and breweries in Merri-bek
Brunswick’s Stanislaw Kowalski turns 100
Mature trees
Sydney Road Street Party public transport works
3-day pet adoption drive
International Women’s Day at Merri-bek City Council
International Women’s Day at Merri-bek City Council
Council commits to transforming derelict land in Pascoe Vale South into brand new park space
Anniversary of the National Apology to the Stolen Generations
Love Merri-bek Trail Maps are here!
Household waste collection on time
Community satisfaction survey
Melville Moreland Shopping Strip upgrade
Notice of intention - Sydney Road Brunswick Shopping Precinct
Resources to help small businesses open their doors sooner
Citizenship ceremonies to continue in Merri-bek year-round
Statement from Mayor Angelica Panopoulos on Citizenship Ceremonies on January 26
New library catalogue and management system
A new 4-bin waste service is coming to Merri-bek in July 2023
Cr Angelica Panopoulos elected as Merri-bek's youngest ever Mayor
Arts and Culture Strategy 2023-2027
Community Budget Ideas 2023-24
Council condemns violence against Hazara people
Our new library catalogue and management system is coming!
Council calls on Australian Government to show support for ban on nuclear weapons
2022 Merri-bek Awards announced
Australian National Flag to fly at Half-Mast - Tuesday 18 October
Help us shape the Active Merri-bek Aquatic and Leisure Strategic Plan
Seeking expressions of interest from social enterprises for a café at the Glenroy Community Hub
Welcome to Merri-bek: City Council name officially changed
Level crossing removals in Brunswick welcome, but more investment in Upfield line urgently needed
Merri-bek name for Council approved
Closure of Australian Energy Foundation
With new Merri-bek name, Council is a step closer to reconciliation (media release)
Merri-bek endorsed for new Council name
Merri-bek supported for new Council name
New name options for Merri-bek presented by Wurundjeri Woi-wurrung Elders (media release)
Council support change of 'Merri-bek' municipality name
Special Council Meeting to consider renaming request
Council asked to consider Merri-bek name change
Hoffman Brickworks updates
Public notice: Proposed Creation of Easement at 5 Walter Street Hadfield
Annual Reports
Aged and community support Newsletter
Merri-bek Community News
My Merri-bek e-newsletter
Our Candid Community Podcast
Strategies, policies and collected data
Policies and strategies
Collected data
Environmental data
Council services data
Research and data reports
Population and housing forecast data
Community Satisfaction Survey
Community infrastructure planning
Online privacy policy
Public Interest Disclosures
Tenders
Grants and awards
Arts grants
Community Grants Program
Applying for community grants
Support for Grant Applicants
Annual grants
All Year Round Grants
Merri-bek Community Awards
Local laws and legislation
Merri-bek local laws
Local law and animal fines
Local law permits
Documents for public review
Freedom of information
Contact
Contact us
Report an issue
Give our staff a compliment
Complaints
Information in your language
Emergency management
Storms and flooding preparedness
Municipal Emergency Management Plan
Emergency numbers
Preparing for Emergencies: Before, During and After
Extreme heat and heat health
Council advocacy
Advocacy Priorities
Submissions on key issues
Advocacy Partnerships

Facebook 

Twitter 

Instagram 

Contact Us

Merri-bek City Council
Woi-wurrung Country, Locked Bag 10, Brunswick Vic. 3056;
Woi-wurrung Country, 90 Bell Street, Coburg Vic. 3058 Australia

Phone: (03) 9240 1111

Report an issue 
| 
Report a child safe issue 

Accessibility 

Copyright 

Disclaimer 

Privacy 

Careers 

Merri-bek City Council acknowledges the Wurundjeri Woi-wurrung people of the Kulin Nation as the Traditional custodians of the lands and waterways in the area now known as Merri-bek, and pays respect to their Elders past, present, and emerging, as well as to all First Nations’ communities who significantly contribute to the life of the area.