Resident Fellows -
NYU Abu Dhabi

Skip To All NYU Navigation
Skip To Main Content
To open and close this bar, use option alt + /

عربي

All NYU

Search

()search

Close

Menu

Close

عربي

All NYU

Academics

Back

Academics

Prepare to succeed in a truly global world.

Undergraduate

Graduate and PhD

Divisions and Programs

Community Programs

Executive Education

Apply

Back

Apply

Join the best and the brightest students from more than 120 countries.

Undergraduate

Graduate and PhD

Campus Life

Back

Campus Life

Live in a community that feels like home, surrounded by peers from all over the world.

Housing and Accommodation

Campus Features and Facilities

Living in Abu Dhabi

Sports, Athletics, and Fitness

Undergraduate Life

Graduate Life

Research

Back

Research

The NYUAD community is conducting research on the vanguard of almost every field.

Research Institute Centers

Faculty Labs and Projects

Research Translation and Entrepreneurship

Impact

Facilities and Support

Faculty Profiles

Researchers

Public Programs

Back

Public Programs

Discover shows, art exhibitions, and talks at NYU Abu Dhabi.

The Arts Center

The Institute

The Art Gallery

All Events

About

Back

About

Exceptional education. World class research. Community-driven.

Vision and Mission

Leadership and People

Facts and Figures

The NYU Abu Dhabi Campus

Administration and Governance

Sustainability and Stewardship

Strategic Philanthropy Initiative

Community Engagement

Quick Links

Faculty

Current Students

Alumni

Library

Events

News

Press Room

Careers

Contact

Child Pages

al Mawrid Arab Center for the Study of Art

Arab Art Archive

Resources

Past Projects

Events

Opportunities

Resident Fellows

About Us

Breadcrumbs

Home

Research

Faculty Labs and Projects

al Mawrid Arab Center for the Study of Art

Resident Fellows

Resident Fellows

al Mawrid Resident Fellow program provides an opportunity for artists and scholars to explore al Mawrid's archive and to engage with the NYUAD faculty and students. al Mawrid is not currently hosting new resident fellows.

Scholars interested in collaborating with al Mawrid are encouraged to apply to the NYU Abu Dhabi Research Institute's Humanities Research Fellowships for the Study of the Arab World . The Institute welcomes applications from scholars working in all areas of the Humanities related to the study of the Arab world, its rich literature and history, its cultural and artistic heritage, and its manifold connections with other cultures.

al Mawrid's Resident Fellows

Zuhoor Al Sayegh

June 2025

Cristiana de Marchi

May 2024

Lara Baladi

February 2023

Donata Levi

April 2025

Suheyla Takesh

October 2023

Hanaa Malallah

May 2022

Dena Al-Adeeb

April 2025

Patrick Kane

July 2023

Lawrence Abu Hamdan

November 2021

Zuhoor Al Sayegh (June 2025)

Zuhoor Al Sayegh is an interdisciplinary artist based between Berkeley and the UAE. Al Sayegh draws inspiration from movement and narratives. Her research examines the Anthropocene and archives as markers of history and national identity, exploring these themes through her work in sculpture, fiber, and mixed media. She finds the decisions and methodologies behind collecting particularly intriguing, as the way items are labeled reflects how they are remembered and how they persist in collective memory.

Al Sayegh has exhibited extensively at the Acre Projects space in Chicago, the Jameel Art Center during the Youth Takeover in Dubai, the Textile Arts Center in New York, Warehouse421 in Abu Dhabi, Tashkeel in Dubai, Bait Al Mamzar in Dubai, and K.B.H.G in Basel. She received the Sheikha Salama bint Hamdan Emerging Artists Fellowship (SEAF) for 2021–22 and participated in a residency program at the Textile Arts Center in Brooklyn, New York, in 2019–20. Al Sayegh graduated with a BFA from The School of the Art Institute of Chicago in 2019 and is currently a first-year MFA student in UCB’s Art Practice MFA program.

Donata Levi (April 2025)

Donata Levi is Professor of History of Art Criticism and Museology at the University of Udine (Italy) and President of the Fondazione Memofonte in Florence. Her research focuses primarily on art criticism and museology from the 18th to the 20th century, as well as the history of art heritage protection. In 2021, she co-edited the volume Contested Space – Contested Heritage. Sources on the Displacement of Cultural Objects in the 20th Century Alpine-Adriatic Region with Michael Wedekind

Dena Al-Adeeb (April 2025)

Dena Al-Adeeb is a transnational feminist artist and scholar based between Marrakech and San Francisco.

Working across text, video, performance, installation, digital media, photography, sculpture, painting, and drawing Dena creates participatory, socially engaged projects, collaborative processes that bridge art and solidarity praxis. Her creative practice centers decolonial frameworks and explores war, displacement, and exile through fractured landscapes, built environments, and memory, where intimacy emerges as a form of resistance alongside acts of cultivating land and roots.

Dena is a recipient of numerous awards, including a Mellon Artist and Practitioner Fellowship at Yale University and a UC President’s Postdoctoral Fellowship. She has held research positions as a Senior Fellow at Heidelberg University’s Käte Hamburger Center for Apocalyptic and Post-Apocalyptic Studies and as a Visiting Scholar at UC Davis. With a Ph.D. from NYU in Middle Eastern and Islamic Studies, she has taught at institutions including NYU, Pratt Institute, and San Francisco State University.

Her work has been exhibited internationally (Art 13 London, Arab American National Museum, National Veterans Art Museum, Light Work Gallery, Headlands Center for the Arts, Falaki Gallery, Mashrabia Gallery, Darb 1718, Galerie le Violon Bleu) and published widely (Journal of Middle East Women’s Studies, Alif: Journal of Comparative Poetics, We Are Iraqis: Aesthetics and Politics in a Time of War anthology, Ibraaz, Light Work Contact Sheet). She has been a resident artist at Light Work, Mana Contemporary, Pro Arts Gallery & Commons, Utopia School by Flux Factory, Dresher Art Ensemble, ARAB.AMP, and CULTUREHUB. Dena founded initiatives such as DIWAN: SWANA Futurisms and is a member of the HEKLER Collective and Palestinian Feminist Collective

Cristiana de Marchi (May 2024)

Cristiana de Marchi has a long record of work with and writing on the UAE art community. She has been the in-house curator at The Flying House (2008-2012), a collective of UAE pioneering visual artists, gathering around the leading figure Hassan Sharif. Her curatorial projects include: Rearranging the Riddle (Maraya Art Centre, 2020), the first institutional solo show by Emirati artist Shaikha Al Mazrou, accompanied by the first monographic publication on Al Mazrou’s artistic practice, also edited by de Marchi; Beyond. Emerging Artists (Abu Dhabi Art, 2017); A Public Privacy (Dubai Community Theatre and Arts Centre, 2015), the inaugural iteration of “UAE Unlimited”, an exhibition platform under the patronage of H.H. Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan bin Khalifa Al Nahyan, to promote emerging Emirati and GCC based artists; and MinD/Body (Dubai Community Theatre and Arts Centre, Dubai and NYU Abu Dhabi, 2013), a historical show focusing on performance and the use of body in the Gulf Countries. Both these shows were accompanied by book-length publications edited by de Marchi. In 2016, Sharjah Art Foundation published Embodying, de Marchi’s collection of poems in response to Hassan Sharif’s 1980s performances.

Suheyla Takesh (October 2023)

Suheyla Takesh is the Curator at Barjeel Art Foundation in Sharjah where she works on research, exhibitions, and oversees its publications. Suheyla holds a master’s degree from MIT’s Department of History, Theory, and Criticism. She is the co-curator of Taking Shape: Abstraction from the Arab World, 1950s–1980s at the Grey Art Gallery, NYU, and the co-editor of its accompanying volume of essays. Her writing has been published in peer-reviewed journals, including Rutgers Art Review, Thresholds, and Journal of Contemporary Iraq & the Arab World. During her Fellowship at al Mawrid, Suheyla will use al Mawrid’s archives to expand her research on East-East cultural relations in the mid to late twentieth century Arab art. Her other research interests include critical interrogations around collection building and the use of geometry in the work of modernist Arab artists.

Patrick Kane (July 2023)

Patrick Kane is senior lecturer at the Higher Colleges of Technology in Sharjah. He received his Ph.D. from Binghamton University in 2007, where he studied art history and philosophy. Author of The Politics of Art in Modern Egypt (2011), His research focuses on modern Arab history and the arts. With Professor Salwa Mikdadi at NYU Abu Dhabi, he is currently writing an intellectual biography of the Egyptian feminist and artist Inji Efflatoun. He has written for various journals and art catalogs.

Lara Baladi (February 2023)

Lara Baladi is an Egyptian-Lebanese artist, archivist and educator recognized internationally for her multidisciplinary works. Her artistic practice spans from photography, video, sculpture to architecture, multimedia installations, textile and scent. Informed by critical investigations into historical archives and the study of popular visual culture, Baladi’s work questions the theoretical divide between myth, memory, sociopolitical narratives and the cycles inherent to History.

Baladi received fellowships from the Japan Foundation (2003) and MIT’s Open Documentary Lab (2014). She was an artist-in-residence at MIT (Ida Ely Rubin Artist in Residence, 2015), MacDowell (New Hampshire, 2015), Art Omi (Ghent, New York, 2014) and VASL, (Karachi, Pakistan, 2010), amongst others.

Within her artistic practice, she is active in socially engaged projects. For more than twenty years, she has been on the board of directors of the Arab Image Foundation in Lebanon and the Townhouse Gallery of Contemporary Art in Egypt. Ongoing since 2011, her media initiative Vox Populi: Tahrir Archives, includes a series of media initiatives (Tahrir Cinema), artworks, publications and an opensource timeline and portal into web-based archives of the 2011 Egyptian revolution and other global social movements.

Baladi’s work has been published, exhibited and featured internationally—the Centre Pompidou, (Paris, France, 2004), Transmediale, (Berlin, Germany, 2016), the Gwangju Biennial, (South Korea, 2018) to the Hasselblad Foundation, (Gothenburg, Sweden, 2021).

Since 2016, Lara Baladi has been a lecturer in MIT's Program Art, Culture, and Technology (ACT).

During her time as a Resident Fellow, Baladi will present a series of lectures, conduct studio visits and work to develop one of her projects. At once an artistic and educational endeavor, Anatomy of Revolution is an interactive web-based artwork & archive, a ‘lesson in History,’ in the form of an ABC of terms and iconography related to global, past and present, social movements.

Hanaa Malallah (May 2022)

Hanaa Malallah is an artist, researcher, and educator, based in London. Born in Iraq, she studied painting at the Academy of Fine Arts in Baghdad, and later earned an MA and PhD from the University of Baghdad. In her graduate work, she developed a semiotic approach to art, receiving a doctorate in 2005 for a thesis that uses forms of logic elaborated by modern philosophy to examine the art of ancient Mesopotamia.

Malallah left Iraq at the end of 2006 for an artist residency at the Institut du monde arabe in Paris; that was followed by fellowships at the School of Oriental and African Studies and the Chelsea College of Art in London. She has lectured at the University of Baghdad and the Royal University for Women in Bahrain.

Since the early 1990s, Malallah has tried to think through destruction as an essential part of the human condition, by treating the material she works with as found objects that she mutilates or disfigures according to what she came to conceptualize in 2007 as a ‘ruins technique’. This reflection on destruction has drawn on Malallah’s research on semiotics, and on the material culture of ancient Mesopotamia, but more recently it has shifted its focus from objects to landscapes, and it has explored the ‘virtual’ aspects of destruction: the temporality of decay, the survival of material, and the paradoxical appearance of invisibility within the visible. Her research on the virtual has led more recently to examine the relationship between spiritualism and technology.

Hanaa Malallah's activities at al Mawrid

Expand / Collapse all

"On Ruins and Rubble" Faculty Talk, 10 May 2022

Since her first exhibition, in 1991, two months after the Gulf War, the practice of Hanaa Malallah has dealt with the subject of ruins, whether the archaeological ruins of ancient Mesopotamia or the modern ruins produced by war. In this talk, Malallah develops a new hypothesis about the difference between these two kinds of ruins by distinguishing the regenerative energy of ruins produced by time from the lethal energy of rubble produced by war.

Meeting with NYU Abu Dhabi MFA students, 11 May 2022

Artist Hanaa Malallah and al Mawrid Resident Fellow visits NYU Abu Dhabi MFA Students, 11 May 2022

Nadwa [Seminar] with Hanaa Malallah: Reading Documents from the Artist's Archive

For Hanaa's closing seminar or Nadwa , al Mawrid's resident fellow guided a close reading of two documents from her papers. The first document is an unpublished study by Shakir Hassan Al Sa'id (1925-2004), entitled, "The Legend of the Spirit-Bird: the Story of the Silent Language of the Nightingale" (1996). The second is an essay Malallah wrote on the occasion of an exhibition held at the National Gallery of Fine Arts in Amman in 1997 entitled "Environment and Ecology in Iraqi Art".

Al Mawrid is currently in the process of digitizing the artist's collection.

Nadwa Seminar with Hanaa Malallah: Reading Documents from the Artist's Archive

Lawrence Abu Hamdan (November 2021)

Lawrence Abu Hamdan is a “Private Ear”. His interest with sound and its intersection with politics originate from his background as a touring musician and facilitator of DIY music. The artists audio investigations has been used as evidence at the UK Asylum and Immigration Tribunal and as advocacy for organisations such as Amnesty International and Defence for Children International together with fellow researchers from Forensic Architecture.

Abu Hamdan completed his PhD in 2017 from Goldsmiths College University of London and has completed fellowships at the Gray Centre for Arts and Inquiry at the University of Chicago and the Vera List Centre for Art and Politics at the New School.

Abu Hamdan has exhibited his work at the 58th Venice Biennale, the 11th Gwanju Biennale and the 13th and 14th Sharjah Biennial, Witte De With, Rotterdam, Tate Modern Tanks, Chisenhale Gallery, Hammer Museum L.A, Portikus Frankfurt, The Showroom, London and Casco, Utrecht. His works are part of collections at MoMA, Guggenheim, Van AbbeMuseum, Centre Pompidou and Tate Modern. Abu Hamdan’s work has been awarded the 2019 Edvard Munch Art Award, the 2016 Nam June Paik Award for new media and in 2017 his film Rubber Coated Steel won the Tiger short film award at the Rotterdam International Film festival. For the 2019 Turner Prize Abu Hamdan, together with nominated artists Helen Cammock, Oscar Murillo and Tai Shani, formed a temporary collective in order to be jointly granted the award.

Let's Connect

© 2025 New York University Abu Dhabi

Digital Privacy Statement

General Feedback

Accessibility

Back To Top