Artist Residency Grants | Ras Al Khaimah Art
2027 Festival Submit Your Proposal ENGLISH

2027 Festival

2027 Festival Submit Your Proposal Home
About
2027 Festival 2027 Festival Open Call RAK Ceramics Design Contest

Exhibitions Exhibitions Overview Biennale

Experiences Hidden Table Film Screenings Art Tours Heritage Tours Food Tours

Educational Programs Art Exploration Program Workshops Speaker Series

Stages Abdul Kareem House The Fort The Majlis

Grants & Residency Artist Residency Grants Film Grants FilmHub

Partners
Media News Video Gallery Press Kit Brand Guidelines

Past Festivals 2026 Festival Other Past Festivals Awardees European Film Festival

ENGLISH

Home
About
2027 Festival 2027 Festival Open Call RAK Ceramics Design Contest

Exhibitions Exhibitions Overview Biennale

Experiences Hidden Table Film Screenings Art Tours Heritage Tours Food Tours

Educational Programs Art Exploration Program Workshops Speaker Series

Stages Abdul Kareem House The Fort The Majlis

Grants & Residency Artist Residency Grants Film Grants FilmHub

Partners
Media News Video Gallery Press Kit Brand Guidelines

Past Festivals 2026 Festival Other Past Festivals Awardees European Film Festival

ENGLISH

Exhibitions
2027 Festival Open Call
RAK Ceramics Design Contest
General Exhibitions
Biennale

Experiences
Hidden Table
Film Screenings
Art Tours
Heritage Tours
Food Tours

Stages
Abdul Kareem House
The Fort
The Majlis

Educational Programs
Art Exploration Program
Workshops
Speaker Series

Grants & Residency
Artist Residency Grants
Film Grants
FilmHub

Media
News
Video Gallery
Press Kit
Brand Guidelines

Past Festivals
2026 Festival
Other Past Festivals
Awardees
European Film Festival

QUICK LINKS
About
Partners
Contact Us

Privacy Policy
© 2026 Ras Al Khaimah Art. All rights reserved.

Artist Residency Grants

Grant Objectives Residency Inclusions & Expectations Eligibility Application & Selection Process

Submissions closed
The Artist Residency Grants invite both local and international artists to create new work and engage with the Ras Al Khaimah community. Inspired by the Emirates, these artists produce captivating works and share their talents through workshops. Open to all creative practices, the program offers six-month residencies that culminate in an exhibition and a collaborative public art installation.

Grant Objectives
01
Promote the value of all the arts through meaningful engagement with local residents, organizations, and the broader Ras Al Khaimah community.

02
Provide opportunities for artistic creation, exchange, reflection, and learning.

03
Promote cross-cultural exchange that sparks curiosity and new ideas and also facilitates deeper understanding and appreciation.

04
Support the development of local & emerging talent and demonstrate successful career pathways other artists have taken.

05
Contribute to the sustainable growth and development of Ras Al Khaimah's creative sector.

Residency Inclusions & Expectations
Artist residency is available for a duration of six months, with funding capped at 61,000 AED. This financial support covers essential residency-related expenses, such as travel costs to and within the UAE (including airfare, car rental, accommodation, living stipend, and visa fees), purchase of art materials, rental of specialized equipment, professional services related to artwork creation, and translation services.
The structure of each residency may vary based on the proposed activities put forward during the application process. In general, the Foundation expects the following of Visiting Artists:
• Create new personal works based on the Statement of Intent approved during the selection process
• Willingness to have an "open studio" and welcome the general public to observe and ask questions while working on personal projects
• Lead a workshop or hands-on activity for every month of the residency (e.g., a six-month residency would require six workshops)
• Record one podcast interview discussing residency projects and broader artistic approach/interests for a general, layperson audience
• Present a solo exhibition at the annual Ras Al Khaimah Art Festival
• Write one blog (500-800 words) related to the residency experience for publication on the Foundation's website and social media platforms
• Donate one work created during the residency to the Foundation

Eligibility
Prospective applicants for Artist Residency Grants should meet the following eligibility requirements:
• Degree in studio or fine arts or established portfolio of equivalent experience
• Practicing artist or filmmaker working in the following media: drawing, film, jewelry, mixed media, painting, photography, sculpture, or textiles
• Participated in at least one solo exhibition OR two group exhibitions OR one film festival in past three years
• Demonstrated experience teaching or helping others to explore different artistic media through hands-on workshops and activities
• Evidence for how prior formal and informal cultural exchange experiences provided inspiration for personal creative practice and artistic expression
• Proficiency in spoken and written English
• At least 21 years of age by the time the proposed residency would take place
• Not enrolled in other residency or academic programs during the proposed residency period at the Foundation
Additionally, Arabic language skills, documented community art projects, and experience working with individuals of different ages and cultural backgrounds are considered assets. Due to space limitations, residencies can only be offered for individuals – artist collectives should not apply.

Application & Selection Process
Artists meeting the minimum eligibility criteria noted above are encouraged to apply for an Artist Residency Grant. Before applying, please review the grant handbook , as it contains important information for applicants and recipients.
The 2026 Arts and Culture grant submission cycle, which includes Artist Residency Grants is open now with a closing deadline of June 5, 2026. Prospective applicants should create an account in the Foundation's grant management portal and follow the Artist Residency Grant application instructions once submissions open. The online application form and all documents noted below must be uploaded and submitted in the grant management portal no later than June 5, 2026 to be considered. Materials may be submitted in Arabic or English:
• Online application form and all required documents listed below must be uploaded and submitted through the Foundation’s online grants portal no later than June 5, 2026, to be considered.

• Cover Letter (no more than 2 pages) outlining reasons why the applicant is interested in the residency opportunity. The letter should address (1) prior experiences and skills relevant to the residency; (2) how proposed activities align with the stated Artist Residency Program objectives and broader mission of the Al Qasimi Foundation; (3) what the applicant hopes to gain from the residency experience; and (4) how the residency fits into the applicant's long-term goals.

• Full artistic CV (no more than 2 pages) includes, as applicable: education, exhibitions, bibliography, collections, teaching, texts, curatorial projects, honors and awards, affiliations, and residencies.

• Artist bio , photo, and professional statement (no more than 2 pages)

• Representative portfolio sample of work produced in the last five years. The portfolio should be submitted as a low resolution .pdf and contain no more than 15 images. Each image should contain the title, date, size, and materials. Portfolios larger than 2 MB should be sent via a WeTransfer or Dropbox link. If images are not possible due to the nature of the applicant's work, up to 5 video/audio URL links that support the application (no longer than 5 minutes each) may be submitted instead.

• Residency Statement of Intent detailing anticipated residency activities and timelines involved. At a minimum, it should include the artist's goals for the residency, a description of the personal work that will be undertaken, summaries of suggested workshops (including target audiences and minimum skill levels necessary), and any special space or other logistics required to facilitate a productive residency. The solo exhibition concept and, if applicable, community art project should also be outlined.

• A completed Artist Residency Budget submitted through the portal, detailing itemized expenditures and the total grant request

• Two recommendation letters from art professionals and colleagues, one of which should come from a reputed arts institution, organization, or education program that the applicant has engaged with.

The submission review process is competitive. The Selection Committee will review all complete proposals and shortlist finalists to invite for an interview. Interviews may take place in-person or online via platforms like Zoom or Microsoft Teams. Once all interviews are complete, the Selection Committee will make a final recommendation and choose the visiting artist(s) for the year. Applicants can generally expect to receive a formal decision on the status of their submission within 6-8 weeks of the annual submission deadline.
While the Al Qasimi Foundation receives many excellent and high-quality submissions, only 1 residency is available each year. Selection is based on the quality of portfolios and the relevance of applicants' proposed activities during the residency.
Questions regarding Artist Residency Grants, the application process, or the submission status may be sent to media@rakart.ae .
Submissions closed