ENTRY｜Tokyo TDC

TDC
ENTRY

G. Steps for Entry

NUMBERS DESIGN BY

TOP

NEWS

ENTRY

AWARD

MEMBER

ABOUT

CONTACT

JP
/
EN

TOKYO TIME

NUMBERS DESIGN BY

ENTRY

G. Steps for Entry

The Tokyo Type Directors Club

Tokyo TDC Annual Awards 2027

Entry Guidelines for Overseas Residents

The Tokyo Type Directors Club (Tokyo TDC), founded in 1987 to pursue the possibilities of visual expression of letters and words, has held the Tokyo TDC Annual Awards every year since 1990. This fall, we will be accepting entries for the Tokyo TDC Annual Awards 2027. We look forward to receiving many submissions.

▶︎ 国际投稿者 参赛须知【中文版】

▶︎ 해외 참가업체 신청 요강【한국어】

A Deadline for submission

Deadline for Early Submission (discounted entry fee): July 15ー August 15, 2026

Deadline for Final Submission: August 16 ー September 15, 2026

＊ Early Submission refers to entries submitted by August 15, 10:00 pm Japan Standard Time, in which all data intended to be submitted by the applicant is submitted in full. Please note that any additional entries, including submission of missing data, made after the initial submission will be treated as Final Submission , and an additional entry fee will be charged. Images may not be resubmitted or replaced after submission.

B Eligibility

① No special qualifications are required to submit an entry. TDC requires that applicants be the Type Director of the entry works.

② In terms of time period, in principle, the submitted works should have been created or presented between September 2025 and the application deadline. However, the work may be submitted if the work, or part of a series of works, was created, presented, or used during this period and has not been submitted for this award in the past.

③ Projects that use unauthorized, existing company, brand or artist names may not be submitted .

④ Entries must be submitted independently and individually by the applicant. Entries may not be submitted by a parent or guardian on behalf of the applicant. In the case of student works, instructors’ names will not be credited. However, projects from universities or other educational institutions that can be regarded as a single independent work may be submitted under a team name in the Experimental Work category. (Note: Works such as posters created by multiple students under the same theme cannot be submitted as a team entry and must be submitted individually.)

C Category

1. Small Graphics

Calendar, Record Jacket, Flier, Ticket, Invitation, DM, Catalog, Pamphlet etc.

2. Editorial / Book Design

3. Type Design

4. Mark & Logotype / CorporateStationery / Branding

Mark & Logo / Logotype and items using it, Motion Logo, CI, VI, Corporate stationery, Brand design including logo. Advertisement in Branding enter category 6. Website enter category 9 separately.

5. Signage & Display / Packaging

Make an entry of digital signage in the Signage & Display category if wish to show work as a space.

6. Advertising

Newspaper & Magazine Advertisement / Poster A = Advertising Poster / Advertising Campaign / Advertising Motion Poster, etc. Website enter category 9 separately.

7. Poster B

For poster entries not included in category 6. / Motion Poster.

Independently produced posters and experimental posters enter Poster B category, not to Experimental Work.

.

8. Experimental Work

Works that are considered more suitable to be named Experimental Work than other category names. This includes installations, art pieces, and projects.

9. Web site / Application

10. Video (Music Video, Live Video, Movie Title, Motion Graphics, Film Advertising, Digital Signage, and Spatial/Background Video, etc.)

Digital signage that you want to be seen as video art enter this category.

11. RGB Experimental

For entries not included in the category 9,10. Experimental works using AI is included.

D Schedule

Selection / Announcement

① Early Mid-October 2026 = Excellent Works for Category 1,2,4,5,6,7,8,9 will be chosen.

→ If chosen as Excellent Works, the applicant are requested to send in their physical work to TDC office by 16 November .

* In principle, the physical works will not be returned. If you wish, they will be returned at your expense.

② Late November 2026 = Excellent Works , Nominated Works , Prize Winning Works are selected for Category 3, 10,11 in each specialized jury session.

③ Late November 2026 = Nominated Works and Prize Winning Works will be chosen from viewing and evaluating the physical Works of Excellent Works .

④ Early December 2026 = Prize winners are notified.

⑤ Mid-December 2026 = Prize Winning Works, Nominated Works, and Excellent Works will be published on TDC Website.

⑥ Late December 2026 = The applicants listed above will be requested to send in images and caption manuscript. Non-selected applicant will be notified.

* Inquiries concerning the results by individual will not be replied.

Exhibition

Prize Winning Works and Nominated Works will be exhibited at TDC exhibition. Excellent Works which earn high marks is also exhibited. Exhibition will be held from 27 May to 8 July 2027 at the Ginza Graphic Gallery in Tokyo. Award ceremony and Design Forum TDC DAY will be held.

* Overseas exhibitions will be held as opportunities arise.

* Showings at other exhibitions not specified here are considered to be approved by applicant without permission.

Annual Book

The international edition of Tokyo TDC, Vol.38 – The Best in International Typography & Design will be published in late May 2027.

* No complimentary copies of the annual book will be provided.

E Evaluation and Others

Prize

Grand Prize: 1 entry / TDC Prize: 6 entries / Type Design Prize: 1 entry / Book Design Prize: 1 entry / RGB Prize: 1 entry / Special Prize (not subject to prize money): 0 – 2 entries

Prize Money

Applicant of Prize Winning Works will receive their prize money and diploma at the award ceremony in 27 May 2027.

Grand Prize: 200000 JPY / Other Prizes: 100000 JPY

Nominated Work

The top around 70 works out of 480, which were nominated for the prize but did not win, are called Nominated Work.

Excellent Work

Around 480 works selected from all entries, and they will be appeared in the annual book.

* From these, the final judging will select 11 Prize Winners and approximately 70 Nominated Works.

* A certification of the result (digital file) will be sent to the above applicant by e-mail.

*If a work submitted by a member of the TDC Annual Awards Committee (i.e., an officer elected by the TDC membership) is highly rated, it will be considered for the Special Prize and Grand Prize only (no prize money awarded).

* Prize winners are requested to provide either a commentary or a 15-minute presentation video for TDC DAY . (Published on YouTube later.)

F Jury

Katsumi Asaba / Yuri Uenishi / Kaoru Kasai / Atsuki Kikuchi / Issay Kitagawa / Fumio Tachibana / Ryoji Tanaka / Mina Tabei / Norio Nakamura / Yugo Nakamura / Kazunari Hattori / Gento Matsumoto / Yoshie Watanabe / Akira Kobayashi / Shuzhi Mei / Han Gao / Dohyung Kim / Taeko Isu / Mariko Okazaki / Yui Takada / Yoshihisa Tanaka / Baku Hashimoto / Yurie Hata / Noriaki Hayashi / Satoshi Machiguchi / Hidenori Yoshioka (Book final)

Specialized jurors for category 3, Type Design

Karen Cheng / Shigenobu Fujita / Chorong Kim / Akira Kobayashi / Ryoko Nishizuka / Osamu Torinoumi / Wen Wang

Guest jurors for category 3, Type Design

Sonya Dyakova / HeiQuicci Harata / Kaoru Kasai / Shuzhi Mei / Tania Prill / John Warwicker / Natsuko Yoneyama

Jurors for categories 10, and 11

Yae Akaiwa (exonemo) / Natsumi Aoyagi / Baku Hashimoto / Gabin Ito / Atsuki Kikuchi / Gento Matsumoto / Yugo Nakamura / Ryoji Tanaka

*Applicant’s name and country/region will not be visible at the jury.

*Jurors cannot vote for their own entries and entries by students instructed directly by jurors.

G Steps for Entry (You can register starting from July 15, 2026)

Step.1 Registering the entry

▶︎ TOKYO TDC 2027 Entry Registration (Google Forms)

Register the applicant’s name and personal information, with an outline of the submission (category, title, intended use & design intention, created date of the work, data to be submitted, Categories 6, 7 and 8 are based on the main item sizes of the works.). For works that have not reached physical production or are based on an assumed client, be sure to clearly write “Prototype” at the beginning of the title.

* Please do not write the applicant’s name or company in the intended use & design intention.

* If you submit multiple entries, number them as 1, 2, 3.., as the “Entry No”.

* For those unable to use Google Forms, please download this PDF and email an entry registration.

E-mail: contact@tokyotypedirectorsclub.org

Subject: TOKYO TDC 2027 Entry Registration

Step.2 Registration Entry ID

When entry registration is completed, TDC will issue one Entry ID per one applicant (within a day). Entry ID will be sent via email. (Note: Multiple entry IDs will not be issued to the same applicant. The same ID must be used for any corrections or additions.)

*If there are any corrections to the entry registration, send the corrected portion by e-mail to Tokyo TDC.

Step.3 Upload the digital image of the work

3-1. Prepare the data. Please refer to the diagram below. Name the folder in which you put your data, as follows: “Category No_your Entry ID_Entry No”

Ex. 04_F321_01

3-2. Put all the submitted works in one folder and ZIP them.

3-3. Log into your Google account.

* Please sign up for a Google account if not yet.

3-4. After logging in, enter your Entry ID.

▶︎ TOKYO TDC 2027 Works Data

The Entry ID and email address used for registration are required.

Click “Add a file,” put all the entries in one folder, ZIP them, and then upload them.

* If you cannot sign up, upload data to an available data transmission service or your server and inform the secretariat via email of the URL from which the data can be downloaded.

E-mail: contact@tokyotypedirectorsclub.org

Subject : TOKYO TDC 2027 Works Data “(your) Entry ID”

* Replacing or deleting data for submitted image is unavailable. Please take care for careful submission.

* The term “file” here refers to singular JPEG, PDF, etc., (i.e., a “file” as the smallest unit of stored collected data); meaning, the term does not refer to a folder containing multiple files or to a compressed ZIP folder.

H Entry format / Q & A

PDF

◉ Explanatory Video refers to a video within one minute in length that can be additionally attached in order to show the print texture or to promote the understanding of a book, etc. This is not a video explaining the concept or the work. Submission is optional, and no additional entry fee is required. (An additional fee will be required if the video is more than one minute in length.)

Explanatory Video sample_1

Explanatory Video sample_2

Q & A

Q. Supposedly my work was selected as an Excellent Work, but what if I am unable to send the physical work to Tokyo for any reasons. What will happen then?

A. We will not withdraw the selected entries. It lacks impact , but a simplified output will be laid out for the final judging panel. (For works that have not reached physical production or are based on an assumed client, be sure to clearly write Prototype at the beginning of the title. If there are special circumstances, please notify us by email.)

Q. Regarding JPEG files, are there any limitations on content amount?

A. We do not have strict rule. But it would be hard to appreciate the work if a JPEG file was excessive in content. please see the example image as mentioned above as a guideline for reference. Because we select works via a monitor, it is desirable if the digital data (excluding posters) is in the horizontal position. Because we select works via a monitor, it is desirable if the digital data (excluding posters) is in the horizontal position.

Q. Can one work be submitted by multiple persons?

A. Yes, it can. Please enter the entrant names as the applicant’s name Type Director. However, enter a group name, etc., if four or more persons jointly submit one work.

Q. What should I do if I want to submit 15 or more JPEG images for one entry?

A. If you wish to submit more than 15 images, please add 20 USD to your entry fee per 5 images. (Example of Final Submission, submit 17 images=entry fee 130 USD / submit 23 images = 150 USD.)

Q. It’s not possible to limit my Explanatory Video to within 1 minute. What should I do?

A. Please add: within three minutes= 15 USD / longer than three minutes= 30 USD.

Q. I want to make more than 10 entries, but the number of columns in the entry registration format (in Google Forms) is insufficient.

A. Please use the same entry ID to make multiple entry registrations, and indicate “2nd registration” or “3rd registration”, etc. in the remarks space.

Q. Can I submit a work that I have submitted to another competition?

A. Yes.

I Notes

① The applicant’s name must be the Type Director’s name of the work. We will give our award to the person. You can not add or change the name after hearing the competition result. Please make sure that the correct name is used when submitting your work.

② The Tokyo TDC Annual Awards is designed to pursue the possibility of visual expression of letters/characters. It does not exist to attack any individual or certain group. We will not accept the following types of entries:

• Entries that defame a specific individual(s), group(s), etc

• Entries promoting political or religious activities.

• Entries that infringe or may possibly infringe on a third party’s intellectual property rights (copyrights, trademark rights, portrait rights, etc.) and entries that the Tokyo TDC judges as inappropriate (entries that are offensive to public order and morals, for example); the Tokyo TDC may cancel an award, nomination and selection for the annual book if it finds an entry applicable to these stipulations.

* If the suspicion of the infringement of a third party’s rights arises after the entry is included in the annual book, the applicant shall be responsible for handling the problem with the third party, and the Tokyo TDC will not take any responsibility.

* Fictitious designs using the name of an existing company or exhibition graphics using the name of an actual artist without permission will not be accepted.

③ Applicant grant TDC the right to reproduce the images of entries for promotional purposes, advance to having their works exhibited at other exhibitions besides those mentioned in the submission requirements and advance to having their works published in the TDC Annual Book digital archives.

④ The layout of the annual book and Exhibition is done in accordance with the editing format and policy of the TDC annual book and Exhibition. We will not accommodate special requests from applicant. Due to technical and organizational constraints, TDC reserves the right to determine the trimming and cutout of the images requested by the annual book’s designer without permission from the applicants. TDC will photograph the entry works if need be.

⑤ The award organizer will begin the necessary work to review your entry immediately after you submit it. If you wish to cancel your entry, even immediately after submission, you must pay the entry fee.

J Entry fee and Paying entry fees:

Entry fee

* If additional entries are received after the Early Submission has been accepted, all entries will be retroactively classified as Final Submission and the entry fee will be added.

* The entry fee should be calculated for each entry.

* About the Student Rate: Applicants must be enrolled as students at the time of submitting to this competition. Additionally, individuals who are working professionally as designers are not eligible to apply at the student rate, even if they are currently attending school.

Early Submission (July 15ー August 15, 2026)

① Category 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8

JPEG 1-8 images: 35 USD (student 20 USD) / 9-15 images: 65 USD (student 40 USD)

② Category 3 PDF 2-6 sheets: 70 USD (student 50 USD)

③ Category 3 additional fee =Variable Font or Similar Video: 15 USD

④ Category 4 additional fee =Motion Logo: 15 USD

⑤ Category 6, 7 additional fee =Motion Poster: 15 USD

⑥ Category 6, 7 Motion Poster Only= 35 USD (student 20 USD)

⑥ Category 9 Web site/Application: 35 USD (student 20 USD)

⑦ Category 10, 11 MOV/MP4: Within 3 minutes: 35 USD (student 20 USD)/ 3 minutes or more: 60 USD (student 35 USD)

•Adding additional JPEG and PDF images for Series Entry= 20 USD for every 5 images

•If the Explanatory Video is longer than 1 minute : under 3 minutes= additional 15 USD/over 3 minutes= additional 30 USD

Final Submission (August 16 – September 15, 2026)

① Category 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8

JPEG 1-8 images: 60 USD (student 40 USD) / 9-15 images: 110 USD (student 70 USD)

② Category 3 PDF 2-6 sheets: 110 USD (student 70 USD)

③ Category 3 additional fee = Variable Font or Similar Video : 20 USD

④ Category 4 additional fee = Motion Logo: 20 USD

⑤ Category 6, 7 additional fee = Motion Poster: 20 USD

⑥ Category 6, 7 Motion Poster Only= 60 USD (student 40 USD)

⑦ Category 9 Web site/Application: 70 USD (student 40 USD)

⑧ Category 10, 11 MOV/MP4: Within 3 minutes: 70 USD (student 40 USD)/ 3 minutes or more: 110 USD (student 70 USD)

• Adding additional JPEG and PDF images for Series Entry= 20 USD for every 5 images

•If the Explanatory Video is longer than 1 minute : under 3 minutes= additional 15 USD / over 3 minutes= additional 30 USD

• Entry fee calculation examples are provided here:

Paying entry fees

Calculate the entry fee and pay under the applicant’s name. Enter the entry ID in “Add a note”.

Deadline for the payment of entry fees:

Early Submission= by August 20, 2026.

Final Submission= by September 16, 2026.

Entries fees will be collected via PayPal.

Please access the URL below.

https://www.paypal.me/tokyotdc

① Enter the sum of entry fees.

② Login to your PayPal account.

③ Make payment via credit card.

* For Singapore residents : Please contact us by e-mail as the remittance PayPal account is different.

Receipt request:

You may request a receipt by sending us a mail with the applicant’s name, the receipt addressee, and the amount paid. We will send a return mail with the receipt attached.

Contact address: contact@tokyotypedirectorsclub.org

Subject : TOKYO TDC 2027 Receipt request

K Contact information

Please contact:

contact@tokyotypedirectorsclub.org

X

F

Y

I