UKS

EN
/
NO

Archive / Program / 2026 – 2026

EN / NO

Program

UKS Union

Archive

Applications

Members

About

Search for:

Founded by artists for artists in 1921, UKS is an institution for international contemporary art and a Norwegian, political membership organization situated in Oslo’s city center.

UKS

(UNGE KUNSTNERES SAMFUND /

YOUNG ARTISTS’ SOCIETY)

Keysers gate 1

0165 Oslo

Postal address:

Postboks 521 Sentrum

0105 Oslo

OPENING HOURS

(DURING EXHIBITION PERIODS)

Wednesday 12 – 5 pm

Thursday 12 – 7 pm

Friday 12 – 5 pm

Saturday 12 – 5 pm

Sunday 12 – 5 pm

No entrance fee and open for everyone.

VISITING UKS

Subscribe to our newsletter

Upcoming

Workshop
Dalghak – Dance Party Revolution: Oslo

8 June 2026, 5-8pm

11 August 2026, 5-8pm

Keysers gate 1

Reading group
Close Readings: LIFE AS POLITICS

12 August 2026, 3:30pm
Keysers gate 1

See full program

5 June – 1 July 2026, 1:00pm

OPEN CALL 2028
ARTISTIC PROGRAMME AND GRANT

UKS (Young Artists’ Society) constantly aims to become more open, embrace risk taking and remain unmapped. We want to be a home to many, to weave relationships, respond to our neighbourhood, encourage conversations and be a testing ground for ideas, materials and forms.

We invite artists to apply to develop and present new works at UKS, regardless of where they are based or their national background. We also welcome applications for grants funded by Snorre Andersen, Maleren Ambrosius Egedius og Hustrus Legat (SAMAEHL).

WE ARE SEEKING:

Four practices to develop new works to be presented at UKS in 2028.

Two grant recipients under the age of 35, for grants funded by SAMAEHL.

2028 ARTISTIC PROGRAMME

For the 2028 Artistic Programme Open Call, UKS invites artists to develop new works in conversation with UKS. The works may inhabit any of our public-facing spaces: the library, workshop space, open kitchen and/or exhibition space. What we are looking for is a development of existing practice in dialogue with UKS.

Works may extend over time, be workshop-based, have plinths, hang on walls, reject the exhibition as a format, embrace it – or be something else entirely. Those selected can expect to enter a vibrant house that is used by many different people. UKS hopes for a mutually rewarding exchange of ideas and new relationships.

The 2028 Artistic Programme Open Call focuses on emerging and experimental practices.

Selected artists will be invited to participate in a workshop in Oslo in spring 2027.

Unlike UKS’ former Open Calls, this opportunity does not offer a solo exhibition at UKS.

WHO CAN APPLY

Both individuals, duos and groups can apply, regardless of gender, sexuality, class, ethnicity, physical ability or age.

National and international applicants are encouraged to apply.

You do not have to be a member of UKS to apply.

UKS provides communications, curatorial, financial and production support. Please see WHAT WE OFFER (below) for a detailed description of UKS’ support.

HOW TO APPLY

The application must be sent digitally. Applications that do not comply with the format set out here will not be reviewed.

Click here to access the online application form (open from Friday 5 June at 1pm CEST).

Application deadline: Wednesday 1 July 2026, 1pm CEST.

The application must include:

A description of your practice, maximum 2,500 characters (including spaces). If in doubt, focus on what interests or engages you right now. What are you currently working on? How do you like working with different materials? What has it been like to collaborate with others?

A portfolio including a maximum of 10 high-resolution images collated in one PDF (maximum size 20MB). Please focus on the direction your work has taken over recent years. Please keep text to a minimum in the image portfolio. Video and audio material should be linked directly from within the portfolio. Please keep the total material to a maximum of 10 minutes.

CV of maximum 4 pages in PDF format, maximum size 6MB.

Practical information:

Applicants are not expected to describe concrete plans for an exhibition or specific works.

Considering the large number of applications expected, we advise applicants to make your application as concise and clear as possible and submit your material in good time in case of any technical problems.

Applications can be submitted in Norwegian, English, Danish or Swedish.

The application portal will be open from 5 June 2026 at 1pm to 1 July 2026 at 1pm CEST. Applications received after the application deadline will not be reviewed.

Questions can be addressed to application@uks.no . Replies can be expected within five working days.

Persons who hold office in the UKS board or nomination committee cannot apply.

WHAT WE OFFER

UKS offers support for the development of your new work. We pay an honorarium and a fee, and cover production costs within the framework described below. We also assist with applications for additional funding. In the past, artists have successfully applied for further project support from the Norwegian Arts Council and other public and private funding bodies.

The selected applicants will engage in an ongoing dialogue with UKS’ director and curator. In addition, UKS provides support with production coordination, technical assistance, administrative guidance, a travel budget according to needs, and the infrastructure of our institution.

Selected participants in the 2028 Artistic Programme will receive:

A production budget of NOK 35,000 paid directly to the artist

An honorarium of NOK 35,000 [1]

A fee (Norwegian: vederlag ) calculated in accordance with the Norwegian Government Remuneration Agreement (Statens avtale om utstillingsvederlag) [2]

GRANTS 2027: SNORRE ANDERSEN, MALEREN AMBROSIUS EGEDIUS OG HUSTRUS LEGAT (SAMAEHL)

In 2027, UKS will award two scholarships of NOK 50,000 each. The SAMAEHL grant stipulates that funds ‘will go to grants for young, gifted artists’. The grants are awarded to artists under the age of 35 who are not part of UKS’ Artistic Programme, and can only be awarded to an individual once.

To apply for the grant:

Submit the same documentation as for the Artistic Programme.

Tick the box confirming that you are eligible for the grant.

Recipients of the grant must be able to provide documentation to prove that they were under the age of 35 at the time of the application deadline.

Only visual artists may apply for the SAMAEHL grant.

THE JURY

Applications to UKS’ Open Call are evaluated by the UKS Jury, consisting of the Chair of the Board plus three Board Members, all of whom are professional and working artists, as well as the Director of UKS. They follow UKS’ jury guidelines, and all applications are read and assessed. We do not provide individual feedback on applications.

Jury members for the 2028 Open Call are: Ragnhild Aamås (Chair), Marianne Heier and Gabriel Johann Kvendseth (Board Members), Vilde Rudjord (Deputy Member) and Miriam Wistreich (Director).

TIMELINE / HOW THE JURY WORKS

The jury’s schedule, subject to change:

4 August: Introductory meeting

24 August: The jury discusses the longlist

31 August: The jury discusses the shortlist

1–3 September: The Director conducts studio visits

14 September: Final jury meeting

1 October: Applicants can expect to receive notification

*

FOOTNOTE TO THE BUDGET CATEGORIES

1. Honorarium:

The funding is contingent on the continuation of funds from the Norwegian Ministry of Culture in 2028. The honorarium covers non-artistic labour related to the project, such as planning, administration, mediation, technical and logistical work.

2. Fee:

The fee is for exhibition copyright. The basis for the calculation is the ‘avtale om utstillingsvederlag’ between the artist organisations and the Norwegian state.

*

FAQ

Q: I am a member. Why does my profile say that I am not a member?

A: The page has not been updated. Please disregard this and continue with your application.

Q: Why am I not able to upload attachments?

A: Make sure your file is under 20MB and that the file name does not contain spaces or special signs or symbols such as ä ö æ ø å . & , % # ; ( ) ! @$ ^ ‘ { } [ ] ? < > – — . If the problem persists, please contact us at application@uks.no .

Q: When will I hear from you?

A: The jurying process takes place throughout August and September. We aim to let applicants know the results in October.

Q: When is the deadline for the next Open Call after this one?

A: Usually once a year. Sign up to our newsletter and keep an eye on our website and social media!

Q: Is UKS’ Open Call only open to artists who have not yet had a solo exhibition in Oslo?

A: No, many of our artists have had exhibitions in other venues before showing at UKS.

Q: I am trying to reset my password but the site keeps sending me in a loop. Can you help?

A: We can generate a new password for you. Please email application@uks.no .

Q: I have already turned 35. Can I still apply for the SAMAEHL grant?

A: No. You must be under 35 years of age at the time of the application deadline on 1 July 2026.

Q: I am over 35 years old. Can I still apply for the Open Call?

A: Yes! There is no upper age limit for applicants to the Artistic Programme.

Q: We would like to apply as a group. Is there a limit to how many group members can apply?

A: Great that you are applying collectively! There is no upper limit, but please note that we are still working out how to manage honorarium payments for groups and that we are not currently able to multiply individual fees for larger groups.

Q: We are applying as a group. Should we attach individual portfolios?

A: We are pleased to receive collective applications at UKS! Please attach one portfolio that gives the jury a clear idea of the collective practice.

Q: Can I apply for both categories in the Open Call?

A: Yes, just tick the relevant boxes and we will jury your application accordingly.

Q: How should I differentiate my application for the different categories?

A: You shouldn’t. We base our assessment on the overall artistic picture, so focus on giving us a well-rounded impression of your practice.

Q: I find the Open Call a bit confusing. Can I find more information?

A: You can! We will host a conversation/Q&A event (which will also be streamed) abo ut UKS’ Open Call on 16 June. And h ere is an interview in Kunstkritikk (in Norwegian) that might help. You can also look at the exhibition programme Lessons in Love , which is the result of our first Open Call in this format.

Q: How many applicants are there?

A: For previous Open Calls, which focused on solo exhibitions, UKS received up to 470 applications, from which three artists were selected to develop their projects. For the 2028 Artistic Programme, we plan to select four participants.

Q: How does the jury process work?

A: The jury holds an initial meeting to address blind spots, interests, biases and expectations. Each jury member then reads through all submitted applications and compiles a longlist of approximately 75 artists. In preparation for the next meeting, the longlist is reviewed and read by all jury members. All applications on the longlist are discussed until we arrive at a shortlist of 15–20 applications. The UKS director then conducts online studio visits with these applicants. In a final meeting, decisions are made for the 2028 Artistic Programme and for the 2027 grant recipients.

Q: When can I expect to hear back about my application?

A: We expect to complete the jurying process in early October. This means we will not be able to meet the new deadline for working grant applications on 1 September 2026.

This website uses cookies to give you the best experience of the site. By clicking “ Accept ” or by continuing to use the site, you agree to this use of cookies.